Today I'll travel to Minnesota, Texas, California, Cleveland, New Zealand,
Sweden, and England.  I'm not frantically packing, and I won't pick up
any frequent flyer mileage.  In fact, I'm sipping cocoa at my Macintosh.
My trips will be electronic, using the computer on my desk, communications
software, a modem, and a standard phone line.

I'll be using the Internet, the global network of computers and their
interconnections, which lets me skip like a stone across oceans and
continents and control computers at remote sites.  I haven't "visited"
Antarctica yet, but it is only a matter of time before a host computer
becomes available there!

This short, non-technical article is an introduction to Internet
communications and how librarians and libraries can benefit from net
connectivity.  Following will be descriptions of electronic mail,
discussion lists, electronic journals and texts, and resources available
to those willing to explore.  Historical details about the building of the
Internet and technical details regarding network speed and bandwidth are
outside the scope of this piece.


What's Out There Anyway?

Until you use a radio receiver, you are unaware of the wealth of
programming, music, and information otherwise invisible to you.
Computer networks are much the same.  About one million people
worldwide use the Internet daily.  Information packet traffic
rises by 12% each month.

About 727,000 host computers are connected, according to a January, 1992
report (Network Working Group  Request for Comments:  1296) by Mark K. Lottor.
So, what's all the excitement about?  What's zipping around in that fiber
and cable and ether, anyway?

On my electronic adventure I browsed the online catalog at the University
Library in Liverpool, England, leaving some "Hi there from Liverpool, New
York" mail for the librarian.

I downloaded some new Macintosh anti-virus software from Stanford's
SUMEX archive.

Then I checked a few databases for information needed for this article, and
scanned today's news stories.

I looked at the weather forecast for here in the East and for the San
Francisco Bay area, forwarding that information to a friend in San Jose
who would read it when he woke up.  The Internet never closes!

After that I read some electronic mail from other librarians in
Israel, Korea, England, Australia and all over the U.S.  We're
exchanging information about how to keep viruses off public computers,
how to network CDROMS, and how to reink inkjet printer cartridges,
among other things.

I monitor about twelve discussion groups.  Mail sent to the group
address is distributed to all other "subscribers".  It's similar to
a round-robin discussion.   These are known variously as mailing lists,
discussion groups, reflectors, aliases, or listservs, depending on what
type they are and how they are driven.   Subscriptions are free.

One of these groups allows children and young adults all over the world to
communicate with each other.   Kids from Cupertino to Moscow are talking
about their lives, pets, families, hope and dreams.  It's interesting to see
that Nintendo is a universal language!

Teachers exchange lesson plans and bibliographies in another group, and
schools participate in projects like the global market basket survey.
For this project, students researched what foods a typical family of four
would buy and prepare over one week's time.  Their results were posted to
the global project area, where they could be compared with reports from kids
all over North and South America, India, Scandinavia, and Asia.  It opened
up discussions of dietary laws, staple foods, and cultural differences.

Other lists explore the worlds of library administration, reference,
mystery readers, romance readers, bird-watcher hotlines, cat enthusiasts,
ex-Soviet Union watchers, packet radio techies, and thousands more.
There is even a list to announce the creation of new lists!


The Power of the Net

A net connection in a school is like having multiple foreign
exchange students in the classroom all the time.  It promotes
active, participatory learning.  Participating in a discussion
group is like being at an ongoing library conference.  All the
experts are Out There, waiting to be asked.

Want to buy a CDROM drive? Send one query and "ask" the 3,000 folks
on PACS-L (Public Access Computer Systems list) for advice.  In a few
hours you'll have personal testimonies on the pros and cons of various
hardware configurations.

Want to see if any libraries are doing anything with Total Quality Management?
Ask the members of LIBADMIN and you'll have offers of reports, studies,
personal experiences and more.  How do you cope with budget cuts:  personnel
layoffs or materials?  Again, LIBADMIN use allows shared advice.

Here is one story about the power of the net.  At Christmas, an electronic
plea came from Ireland.  "My daughter believes in Santa Claus," it began.
"And although the `My Little Pony Megan & Sundance' set has not been
made in three years, she believes Santa will prevail and she will find one
under her tree."  Mom, a university professor, had called the manufacturer
in the US, but none were available.  "Check around," they said, "maybe
some yet stand on store shelves."  So Mom sent the call out to the net.

Many readers began a global search for the wily Pony as part of their own
holiday shopping forays.

Soon, another message came from Dublin.  It seemed that a reader of the
original message had a father who was a high-ranking executive in the toy
company, and he had managed to acquire said pony where others had failed!

It was duly shipped in time to save Santa's reputation.

Part of the library's mission is to help remove barriers to accessing
information, and part of this is removing barriers between people.
One of the most interesting things about telecommunications is that
it is the Great Equalizer.  It lets all kinds of computers and humans
talk to each other.  The old barriers of sexism, ageism, and racism
are not present, since you can't see the person to whom you're "speaking".
You get to know the person without preconceived notions about what you
THINK he is going to say, based on visual prejudices you may have,
no matter how innocent. 

Well, almost without visual prejudice.  Electronic mail is not always an
harmonic convergence of like souls adrift in the cyberspace cosmos:  there
are arguments and tirades (called "flames").  Sometimes you get so used to
seeing a frequent poster's electronic signature that you know what he's
going to say before he says it!


Smileys

One problem with written communication is that remarks meant to be humorous
are often lost.  Without the visual body-language clues, some messages may
be misinterpreted.  So a visual shorthand known as "smileys" has been
developed.   There are a hundred or more variations on this theme-
:-)
That's a little smiley face.  Look at it sideways.   More Smiley info may
be found via anonymous ftp at  many places, including the following:
ftp nic.funet.fi
cd /pub/misc/funnies/smiley.txt

FTP is introduced later in the text.

What a range of emotions you can show using only keyboard characters.
Besides the smiley face above, you can have :-( if you're sad, or :-<
if you're REALLY upset!  ;-) is one way of showing a wink.   Folks wearing
glasses might look like this online:  %^).

But for the most part, the electronic community is willing to help others.
Telecommunications helps us overcome what has been called the tyranny
of distance.  We DO have a global village.

Electronic Newsletters and Serials

Subscribing to lists with reckless abandon can clog your mailbox and
provide a convenient black hole to vacuum up all your spare time.  You
may be more interested in free subscriptions to compiled documents known
as electronic journals.  These journals are automatically delivered to your
electronic door.

There are a growing number of these.  Some of the best for librarians are
listed below.  To subscribe to these journals you must know how to send an
interactive message to another computer.  This information is well-
documented in the resources listed at the end of this article.  Telnet and
ftp
are introduced further along in this article.


ALCTS NETWORK NEWS
(Association for Library Collections and Technical Services)

Various ALA news, net news, other items of interest to librarians.  Send the
following message to
LISTSERV@UICVM.BITNET
SUBSCRIBE ALCTS First Name Last Name.


Current Cites

Bibliography of current journal articles relating to computers, networks,
information issues, and technology.  Distributed on PACS-L, or connect
remotely via