"Let's all join hands in a circle," he said quite faintly, "and
dance round and round once more."

But it was no use. When they joined hands they could not dance, and
when they found they could not dance they all tumbled down in a
heap and cried instead of laughing and Lady Patsy lay with her arms
round Peter Piper's neck.

Now here is where I come in again--Queen Crosspatch--who is telling
you this story. I always come in just at the nick of time when
people like the Racketty-Packettys are in trouble. I walked in at
seven o'clock.

"Get up off the floor," I said to them all and they got up and
stared at me. They actually thought I did not know what had
happened.

"A little girl Princess is coming this morning," said Peter Piper,
and our house is going to be burned over our heads. This is the end
of Racketty-Packetty House."

"No, it isn't!" I said. "You leave this to me. I told the Princess
to come here, though she doesn't know it in the least."

A whole army of my Working Fairies began to swarm in at the nursery
window. The nurse was working very hard to put things in order and
she had not sense enough to see Fairies at all. So she did not see
mine, though there were hundreds of them. As soon as she made one
corner tidy, they ran after her and made it untidy. They held her
back by her dress and hung and swung on her apron until she could
scarcely move and kept wondering why she was so slow. She could not
make the nursery tidy and she was so flurried she forgot all about
Racketty-Packetty House again--especially as my Working Fairies
pushed the arm-chair close up to it so that it was quite hidden.
And there it was when the little girl Princess came with her Ladies
in Waiting. My fairies had only just allowed the nurse to finish
the nursery.

Meg and Peg and Kilmanskeg and Ridiklis and Gustibus and Peter
Piper and Lady Patsy were huddled up together looking out of one
window. They could not bear to be parted. I sat on the arm of the
big chair and ordered my Working Fairies to stand ready to obey me
the instant I spoke.

The Princess was a nice child and was very polite to Cynthia when
she showed her all her dolls, and last but not least, Tidy Castle
itself. She looked at all the rooms and the furniture and said
polite and admiring things about each of them. But Cynthia realized
that she was not so much interested in it as she had thought she
would be. The fact was that the Princess had so many grand dolls'
houses in her palace that Tidy Castle did not surprise her at all.
It was just when Cynthia was finding this out that I gave the order
to my Working Fairies.

"Push the arm-chair away," I commanded; "very slowly, so that no
one will know it is being moved."

So they moved it away--very, very slowly and no one saw that it had
stirred. But the next minute the little girl Princess gave a
delightful start.

"Oh! what is that!" she cried out, hurrying towards the
unfashionable neighborhood behind the door.

Cynthia blushed all over and the nurse actually turned pale. The
Racketty-Packettys tumbled down in a heap beneath their window and
began to say their prayers very fast.

"It is only a shabby old doll's house, your Highness," Cynthia
stammered out. "It belonged to my Grandmamma, and it ought not to
be in the nursery. I thought you had had it burned, Nurse!"

"Burned!" the little girl Princess cried out in the most shocked
way. "Why if it was mine, I wouldn't have it burned for worlds! Oh!
please push the chair away and let me look at it. There are no
doll's houses like it anywhere in these days." And when the
arm-chair was pushed aside she scrambled down on to her knees just
as if she was not a little girl Princess at all.

"Oh! Oh! Oh!" she said. "How funny and dear! What a darling old
doll's house. It is shabby and wants mending, of course, but it is
almost exactly like one my Grandmamma had--she kept it among her
treasures and only let me look at it as a great, great treat."

Cynthia gave a gasp, for the little girl Princess's Grandmamma had
been the Queen and people had knelt down and kissed her hand and
had been obliged to go out of the room backwards before her.

The little girl Princess was simply filled with joy. She picked up
Meg and Peg and Kilmanskeg and Gustibus and Peter Piper as if they
had been really a Queen's dolls.

"Oh! the darling dears," she said. "Look at their nice, queer faces
and their funny clothes. Just--just like Grandmamma's dollies'
clothes. Only these poor things do so want new ones. Oh! how I
should like to dress them again just as they used to be dressed,
and have the house all made just as it used to be when it was new."

"That old Racketty-Packetty House," said Cynthia, losing her
breath.

"If it were mine I should make it just like Grandmamma's and I
should love it more than any doll's house I have. I never--never--
never--saw anything as nice and laughing and good natured as these
dolls' faces. They look as if they had been having fun ever since
they were born. Oh! if you were to burn them and their home I--I
could never forgive you!"

"I never--never--will,--your Highness," stammered Cynthia, quite
overwhelmed. Suddenly she started forward.

"Why, there is the lost doll!" she cried out. "There is Lady Patsy.
How did she get into Racketty-Packetty House?"

"Perhaps she went there to see them because they were so poor and
shabby," said the little girl Princess. "Perhaps she likes this
one," and she pointed to Peter Piper. "Do you know when I picked
him up their arms were about each other. Please let her stay with
him. Oh!" she cried out the next instant and jumped a little. "I
felt as if the boy one kicked his leg."

And it was actually true, because Peter Piper could not help it and
he had kicked out his ragged leg for joy. He had to be very careful
not to kick any more when he heard what happened next.

As the Princess liked Racketty-Packetty House so much, Cynthia gave
it to her for a present--and the Princess was really happy--and
before she went away she made a little speech to the whole
Racketty-Packetty family, whom she had set all in a row in the
ragged old, dear old, shabby old drawing-room where they had had so
much fun.

"You are going to come and live with me, funny, good-natured
loves," she said. "And you shall all be dressed beautifully again
and your house shall be mended and papered and painted and made as
lovely as ever it was. And I am going to like you better than all
my other dolls' houses--just as Grandmamma said she liked hers."
And then she was gone.

And every bit of it came true. Racketty-Packetty House was carried
to a splendid Nursery in a Palace, and Meg and Peg and Kilmanskeg
and Ridiklis and Gustibus and Peter Piper were made so gorgeous
that if they had nest been so nice they would have grown proud. But
they didn't. They only grew jollier and jollier and Peter Piper
married Lady Patsy, and Ridiklis's left leg was mended and she was
painted into a beauty again--but she always remained the useful
one. And the dolls in the other dolls' houses used to make deep
curtsies when a Racketty-Packetty House doll passed them, and Peter
Piper could scarcely stand it because it always made him want to
stand on his head and laugh--and so when they were curtsied at--
because they were related to the Royal Dolls House--they used to
run into their drawing room and fall into fits of giggles and they
could only stop them by all joining hands together in a ring and
dancing round and round and round and kicking up their heels and
laughing until they tumbled down in a heap.