THE DORE GALLERY OF BIBLE ILLUSTRATIONS

                  Illustrated by Gustave Dore

                          Volume 6.




THE NATIVITY.


And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from
Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. (And this taxing was
first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria.) And all went to be
taxed, every one into his own city.

And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into
Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem; (because he
was of the house and lineage of David:) to be taxed with Mary, his
espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was, that, while they
were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And
she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling
clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in
the inn.

And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field,
keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord
came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and
they were sore afraid: And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for,
behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all
people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour,
which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall
find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And
suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host
praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth
peace, good will toward men.

And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven,
the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and
see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto
us. And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe
lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the
saying which was told them concerning this child. And all they that heard
it, wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But
Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart. And the
shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that
they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.

And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child,
his name was called Jesus, which was so named of the angel before he was
conceived in the womb.--Luke ii.




THE STAR IN THE EAST.


Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea in the days of Herod the
king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying,
Where is he that born King of the Jews? for we have seen his star in the
east, and are come to worship him.

When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all
Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and
scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should
be born. And they said unto him; In Bethlehem of Judaea: for thus it is
written by the prophet, And thou Bethlehem! in the land of Juda, are not
the least among the princes of Juda: for out of the shall come a
Governor, that shall rule my people Israel.

Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, enquired of them
diligently, what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem,
and said, Go and search diligently for the young child; and when ye have
found him, bring me word again, that I may come and worship him also.
When they had heard the king, they parted; and, lo, the star, which they
saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the
young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding
great joy.--Matthew ii, I-10.




THE FLIGHT INTO EGYPT.


And when they were departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeareth to
Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the young child and his
mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring thee word:
for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him.

When he arose, he took the young child and his mother by night, and
departed into Egypt: and was there until the death of Herod: that it
might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying,
Out of Egypt have I called my son.--Matthew ii 13-15.




THE MASSACRE OF THE INNOCENTS.


Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding
wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem,
and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under, according to
the time which he had diligently enquired of the wise men.

Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying,
In Rama was there a voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great
mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted,
because they are not.--Matthew ii, 16-18.




JESUS QUESTIONING THE DOCTORS.


Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the
passover.

And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the
custom of the feast. And when they had fulfilled the days, as they
returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his
mother, knew not of it. But they, supposing him to have been in the
company, went a day's journey and they sought him among their kinsfolk
and acquaintance. And when they found him not, they turned back again to
Jerusalem, seeking him.

And it came to pass, that after three days they found him in the temple,
sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking them
questions. And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding
and answers.

And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto him,
Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have
sought thee sorrowing. And he said unto them, How is it that, ye sought
me? wist ye not that I must be about my father's business? And they
understood not the saying which he spake unto them.

And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto
them but his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.

And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man.
Luke ii, 41-52.




JESUS HEALING THE SICK.


And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and
preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness
and all manner of disease among the people. And his fame went throughout
all Syria: and they brought unto him all sick people that were taken with
divers diseases and torments, and those which were possessed with devils,
and those which were lunatic, and those that had the palsy;--and he
healed them.--Matthew iv, 23--24.




SERMON ON THE MOUNT.


And there followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee, and from
Decapolis and from Jerusalem, and from Judaea, and from beyond Jordan.

And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was
set, his disciples came unto him. And he opened his mouth and taught
them.

And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were
astonished at his doctrine: For he taught them as one having authority,
and not as the scribes.

When he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed
him.--Matthew iv, 25; v, 1-2, 28-29, viii, I.




CHRIST STILLING THE TEMPEST.


And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him. And,
behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship
was covered with the waves: but he was asleep. And his disciples came to
him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us: we perish. And he saith unto
them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose, and
rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a great calm. But the men
marveled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the
sea obey him?--Matthew viii, 23-27.




THE DUMB MAN POSSESSED.


As they went out, behold, they brought to him a dumb man possessed with a
devil. And when the devil was cast out, the dumb spake: and the
multitudes marveled, saying, It was never so seen in Israel.

But the Pharisees said, He casteth out devils through the prince of the
devils.--Matthew ix, 32-34




CHRIST IN THE SYNAGOGUE.


And it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished these parables, he
departed thence. And when he was come into his own country, he taught
them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said,
Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works? Is not this the
carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren James,
and Joses, and Simon, and Judas? And his sisters, are they not all with
us? Whence then hath this man all these things?

And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not
without honor, save in his own country, and in his own house.

And he did not many mighty works there because of their
unbelief.--Matthew xiii, 53-58




THE DISCIPLES PLUCKING CORN ON THE SABBATH.


And it came to pass, that he went through the corn fields on the sabbath
day; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears of corn.

And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the sabbath day
that which is not lawful?

And he said unto them, Have ye never read what David did, when he had
need, and was an hungered, he, and they that were with him? How he went
into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and did
eat the shewbread, which is not lawful to eat but for the priests, and
gave also to them which were with him? And he said unto them, The sabbath
was made for man, and not man for the sabbath: Therefore the Son of man
is Lord also of the sabbath.--Mark ii, 23-28.