The Squid-Jigging Ground
(Traditional)

Oh, this is the place where the fishermen gather,
With oilskins and boots and Cape Anns battened down;
All sizes and figures with squid lines and jiggers,
They congregate here on the squid-jigging ground.

Some are workin' their jiggers while others are yarnin',
There's some standin' up and there's more lyin' down;
While all kinds of fun, jokes, and tricks are begun
As they wait for the squid on the squid-jiggin' ground.

There's men from Bar Harbour and men from the Tickle,
In all kinds of motorboats, green, grey and brown;
There's a red headed Tory out here in a dory
Running down Squires on the squid-jiggin' ground.

The man with the whiskers is old Jacob Steele;
He's gettin well up but he's still pretty sound.
While Uncle Bob Hawkins wears three pair o' stockin's
Whenever he's out on the squid-jiggin' ground.

God bless my sou'wester, there's Skipper John Cheeby,
He's the best hand at squid-jiggin' here, I'll be bound
Hello! What's the row? He's jiggin' one now,
The very first squid on the squid-jiggin' ground.

Holy smoke! What a bustle! All hands are excited.
It's a wonder to me that nobody is drowned.
There's a bustle, confusion, a wonderful hustle,
They're all jiggin' squid on the squid-jiggin' ground.

There's poor Uncle Billy, his whiskers are spattered
With spots of the squid juice that's flying around;
One poor little boy got it right in the eye,
But they don't give a hang on the squid-jiggin' ground.

Says Bobby, "The squid are on top of the water,
I just got me jigger 'bout one fathom down"--
When a squid in the boat squited right down his throat,
And he's swearin' like mad on the squid-jiggin' ground.

If you ever feel inclined to go squiddin',
Leave your white shirts and collars behind in the town.
And if you get cranky without your silk hanky
You'd better steer clear of the squid-jiggin' ground.

Oh, this is the place where the fishermen gather,
With oilskins and boots and Cape Anns battened down;
All sizes and figures with squid lines and jiggers,
They congregate here on the squid-jigging ground.