HONORING PARENTS

[Illustration]




HONORING PARENTS.

[Illustration]

_Prepared for the Massachusetts S.S. Society, and revised by the
Committee of Publication._

BOSTON:

MASS. SABBATH SCHOOL SOCIETY,
Depository, No. 13 Cornhill.

1851.




HONORING PARENTS.

[Illustration]

I suppose all my young readers have learned the fifth commandment,
and have often been told that children should honor their parents by
cheerful and prompt obedience to all their commands. This is one way in
which parents should be honored continually.

But there is another way by which you may not only show that you feel
respect for your father and mother yourself, but you may force others to
feel the same respect for them.

That you may understand what I mean, I will tell you a story of a little
boy who, for _once_, at least in his life, honored his mother. This
was not by any command, however, for she was not with him at the time,
and I do not suppose that she ever heard of the circumstance which I am
about to tell you.

One morning, a teacher entered her school of about sixty children,
accompanied by another young lady,--her friend. The children did not
cluster around as thickly as usual. Some quietly took their seats; and
others, disliking the restraint of a stranger's presence, ran into the
play-ground. But nine o'clock soon came; and the teacher, having
conducted her friend to a seat where she might observe what passed
around her, rang a small bell, and the seats were soon filled with rosy
cheeks and smiling countenances. The morning hymn was sung, and then all
knelt to implore the blessing of him who loved little children when he
was in the world, and who loves them no less now he is in heaven. They
rose from their knees; and soon the teacher was busied with classes, and
the children who could study, with their books.

[Illustration]

Miss H. (the stranger) soon became interested in watching the movement
of six or eight little boys, of four years old, who occupied a low bench
near her. The smallest of these was a little black-eyed boy, who moved
about on the seat as much as any one, and made rather more than his
share of noise. He had a little book of pictures, which he was eagerly
displaying to the little ones around him; and several times had his
earnest explanations been interrupted by the voice of the teacher,
saying, "Willy, my dear, you must look at the pictures without talking;"
when a rude boy stepped up and snatched it from his hand.

Now, what would you have done, if you had been in Willy's place just
then? Would you have struck your naughty little playmate, or called him
bad names? or should you have tried to snatch the book back again? Willy
knew a better way. He looked troubled, indeed, at first. He asked for
the book in a very coaxing tone; but when he found that the selfish
Henry would not give it up, he quietly turned away to find amusement
in something else.

A little girl, who sat near, now handed Willy a large yellow-covered
book, full of beautiful painted pictures. His eyes now sparkled more
brightly than ever, as he began to turn over the leaves. Soon Henry
spied the pretty book; and not at all ashamed of his unkindness, he
moved towards Willy, and began to look over his shoulder. Would you not
have pushed him away, or at least have turned round so as to conceal the
book? But Willy held it towards him and pointed to the bright pictures
as pleasantly as if Henry had never been unkind to him.

When school had closed, and the children had left the room, Miss H. said
to the teacher, "Who is that little boy you called Willy?" "His name is
William D----," said the teacher; "but why do you wish to know?"
"Because I know he has a _good mother_," was the reply.

Now, how did this stranger, who never spoke to the little boy in her
life, know that he had a good mother? Was it not by his kind and
forgiving conduct to Henry? Yes; she knew that some good mother had
taught little Willy not to return evil for evil, but to do good to those
that used him spitefully. It was true, Willy's mother loved the meek and
forgiving Saviour, and tried to teach her little boy to love him and be
like him. And was she not honored, when the conduct of her son told
every one that he had a good mother?

[Illustration]

Dear children, can you not thus honor _your_ parents? But instead
of this, some children take the opportunity, when they are away from
their parents, to disobey all their wishes and instructions, and thus
lead those who see them to suppose that they have not been taught to
do right. O, how dreadful, that the conduct of a child should cause a
stranger to say, "I know he has a _bad_ mother!"

[Illustration]