produced from images generously made available by the
Digital & Multimedia Center, Michigan State University
Libraries.)





CHILD'S BOOK
OF
WATER BIRDS.

[Illustration]

NEW YORK
LEAVITT & ALLEN.
1855.




CHILD'S BOOK
OF
WATER BIRDS.

[Illustration]

NEW YORK:
LEAVITT & ALLEN.
1855.




[Illustration]

THE SWAN.


The Swan is a very beautiful bird. It is generally white, though a black
swan has been discovered in Australia. It is not very often seen in this
country. It was brought from Asia and Eastern Europe into England--from
whence, most probably, a few specimens have been introduced into this
country. The Swan is very graceful in the water, but on land it is an
awkward waddler.




[Illustration]

THE COOT.


The Coot is generally found in large sheets of water, particularly if
shaded by trees. The nest is a mass of flags, reeds, and grass, usually
at the water's edge, but sometimes actually in the water. The Coot's
eggs are generally seven in number. They are of a greenish-white,
spotted.




[Illustration]

THE DABCHICK.


The Dabchick is a very timid bird, and when alarmed instantly dives,
after which it is useless to look after the bird. It is easily
domesticated, and is often seen placed as an ornament to ponds, where it
swims about very merrily, and seems to enjoy a game of hide and seek
with any one who is attempting to watch its movements.




[Illustration]

THE TEAL.


The Teal is the smallest of the ducks. The Green-winged Teal is the
American. It feeds on fresh-water insects, seeds, and aquatic plants.
When fat it is considered a great luxury. It is almost always seen on
well furnished tables. It generally feeds at night. It flies very
swiftly, and utters a whistling cry.




[Illustration]

THE GOOSE.


The Goose is a very common bird. In Lincolnshire, England, enormous
flocks are bred, containing from two to ten thousand each. They are
subjected to the plucking of their wing-feathers periodically, in order
to supply the demand for quills.




[Illustration]

THE OYSTER CATCHER.


The Oyster Catcher feeds generally on shell-fish, oysters, limpets, &c.
He detaches them from the rocks to which they are fastened, and opens
them with his long, stout bill. The head, neck, and body are black. It
lays two olive-brown eggs, spotted with black.




LEAVITT & ALLEN

BOOKSELLERS, PUBLISHERS, AND STATIONERS,

AT THE

New and elegant Store,
27 DEY STREET,

a few doors West of Broadway. Where in a central and convenient
location, and with much more commodious Warerooms, they are enabled to
serve all their customers and friends faithfully.

They assure Country Merchants generally that their assortment of

School Books, Library and Miscellaneous Books, Blank Books, Paper, &c.,

is of the most desireable character.