LITTLE STORIES

FOR

LITTLE CHILDREN.


LONDON:

PRINTED BY JOSEPH MASTERS,
ALDERSGATE STREET.





LITTLE STORIES

FOR

LITTLE CHILDREN.





[Illustration]




JOHN WILSON.


John-ny Wil-son and Ned Brown were play-ing at ball one day, and the
ball hit John on the hand: he was ve-ry an-gry, and ran af-ter Ned and
beat him ve-ry hard. Just then, a man came by and gave John a box on
the ear which made him let go of Ned, and he be-gan to cry. Then the man
said, "You beat that lit-tle boy and for-get how you hurt him, but you
do not like it your-self."

Then John was sor-ry, and said he would ne-ver do so any more; he shook
hands with Ned, and he kept his word, and all who knew him lov-ed him.

[Illustration]




JANE NORTH.


Jane North was an i-dle girl; she did not like her book, and when she
was told to read her les-son she would cry, and say she want-ed to play
with her doll. So her doll was tak-en from her till she had read; but
she read ill, and would not learn to write. So she grew up a dunce, and
no one lov-ed her.

[Illustration]




MARY AND LUCY.


Had each a nice doll, and they took care of them. One day Tom call-ed
them to play at ball, and they ran a-way to play, and left the two dolls
on a chair. By and by the cat came in the room, and pull-ed the dolls to
pieces, think-ing I dare say, that it was fine fun to tear them to bits,
and scam-per round the room with poor dol-ly's nose in her mouth.

When the girls came back, and saw the nice new dolls all in bits, they
be-gan to cry, and to beat poor puss; but their mam-ma said, "No, you
must not beat puss, for you left your dolls a-bout, and the cat did not
know that they were not for her to play with. Next time you must be more
care-ful of your toys."

[Illustration]




ANN SHARP.


Was a kind girl. One day she was out, and a poor girl came to her and
said, "Give me some bread, I have had none to eat all day." So Ann said,
"I have no bread, but here is six-pence that my mam-ma gave me, take it,
and buy some bread."

The poor girl took it and said, "Oh! thank you, miss, I can now get
some-thing to eat, and will take some to my poor dad-dy who is sick."

[Illustration]




THE COAT.


"Do not go out with-out your warm coat, Tom; it is a hard frost, and the
snow lies thick on the ground, and you will catch cold, if you do, and
then poor Tom will be ill."

"But I feel quite warm."

"Yes, you do now; but see what a large fire there is here, out of doors
there is no fire, and the cold wind blows; and if you have no warm coat
on, you will feel cold."

But Tom thought he knew best, so he went out with no coat on, and he
caught a bad cold and cough, and he was put to bed quite ill. Now Jack
and Will and Tom were to have had some fine sport on the fro-zen pond in
the farm, but Tom was too ill to go. When he was in bed he thought how
sil-ly he had been, to think he knew bet-ter than his kind friends; and
then he said to him-self, he would try and do all that he was bid when
he got well.

[Illustration]




THE BURNT CHILD.


One day a child want-ed to reach some-thing off the man-tel shelf, and
not be-ing tall e-nough, she stood on the fen-der, and her mo-ther said,
"Fan-ny, you must not get on the fen-der, it will turn o-ver, and then
you will fall in the fire and be sad-ly burnt."

But Fan-ny was not a good child, and did not al-ways do as she was bid:
so when her mo-ther went out of the room, she want-ed to get her
fa-ther's watch that lay on the man-tel shelf, and she stood on the
fen-der to reach it, but the fen-der turn-ed o-ver, and Fan-ny fell in
the hearth and her clothes took fire. She scream-ed loud-ly, but she was
not heard for a lit-tle time, and when her mo-ther ran to her, all her
clothes were in a blaze; she roll-ed the rug over to put out the flame
and then car-ried her to bed.

Poor Fan-ny was sad-ly burnt, and it was a long time be-fore she was
well, and she had a great many scars on her face and neck which ne-ver
wore off.

[Illustration]




GOOD ADVICE.


Jack did not love his book; he was i-dle, and was cross when he was sent
to school, and one day when he ought to have gone, he play-ed a-bout the
mea-dows in-stead; and he met Sam, who was go-ing to school, and he
said, "Come and play with me, Sam, and we will have some fun."

"No," said Sam, "I must go and learn to read, or I shall be a dunce; so
come with me, Jack, and then af-ter school is o-ver we will play."

"But it is so hard to learn," said Jack, "and I want to climb that tree
to get a bird's nest."

"No, do not get a bird's nest, for it is cru-el," said Sam. "Come with
me and try to earn the prize, come, Jack-y, to please me."

Jack then went to school, and he found that when he tried to learn, it
was not very hard, and he could soon read pret-ty sto-ries, and won a
nice prize.

[Illustration]




TOM AND FRED.


"Tom, have a game at trap-bat-and-ball."--"I do not know how to play at
it."--"Well I will teach you, look at me; that is the way, now do it
your-self. That is right, you will soon learn to do it fast."--"Yes, it
is not hard to learn: now let us go and have a race. One, two, three,
and off!"

"Tom, you have won it."--"Yes, I run bet-ter than you; and you play
trap-bat-and-ball bet-ter than I do."--"I am too hot to run any more,
let us sit down and get cool."--"I am to have a seat put near this tree,
should you like one too?" "Yes, but I have no wood to make one."--"Well,
we will ask Dick to give you some wood; come now and ask him."

[Illustration]




THE KIND SISTER.


"Come, dear Ann, sit down and sew a lit-tle."--"Yes, mam-ma, shall I hem
my frock?"--"Yes, do."

Ann was a good child, and al-ways did as she was bid, and when she had
done her work her mam-ma told her to play with her brother. Ann had a
lit-tle gar-den of her own, and she had made an ar-bour in it. When she
went to play she found her bro-ther cry-ing, for he had fall-en down,
and broken her ar-bour to pieces. But Ann said, "You must not cry, dear,
ne-ver mind break-ing the ar-bour, we will soon build it up." So she
kiss-ed him, and they work-ed till tea time and made a bet-ter ar-bour
than be-fore. And Ann felt much more hap-py than she would have been had
she scold-ed and been cross with poor lit-tle George.

THE END.

J. MASTERS, PRINTER, ALDERSGATE STREET, LONDON.