[Illustration]




The Troubadour

By Peter Michael Sherman


 There was something odd about
   the guest attraction, Mr.
    Fayliss, and something
       odder still about
          his songs.


So far as parties go, Jocelyn's were no duller than any others. I went
to this one mainly to listen to Paul Kutrov and Frank Alva bait each
other, which is usually more entertaining than most double features.
Kutrov adheres to the "onward and upward" school of linear progress,
while Alva is more or less of a Spenglerian. More when he goes along by
himself; less when you try to pin him down to it. And since the subject
of tonight's revelations would be the pre-Mohammed Arabian Culture, I'd
find Alva inclined toward my side of the debate, which is strictly
morphological and without any pious theories of "progress".

I'd completely forgotten that Jocelyn had mentioned something about
having a special attraction: a "Mr. Fayliss", who, she insisted, was a
troubadour. I didn't comment, not wanting to spend a day with Jocelyn on
the phone, exploring the Provence.

The night wasn't too warm for August, and there were occasional gusts of
air seeping through the layers of tobacco smoke that hovered over the
assemblage. As usual, it was a heterogeneous crowd, which rapidly formed
numerous islands of discourse. The trade winds carried salient gems of
intelligence throughout the entire archipelago at times, and Jocelyn
walked upon the water, scurrying from one body to another, sopping up
the overflow of "culture". She visited our atoll, where Kutrov's
passionate exposition had already raised the mean temperature some
degrees, but didn't stay long. Such debates didn't suggest any course of
social or political action, and couldn't be trued in to any of her
causes.

My attention was wandering from the Kutrov-Alva variations, for Bill had
only been speaking for ten minutes, and could not be expected to arrive
at any point whatsoever for at least another fifteen. From the east of
us came apocalyptic figures of nuclear physics; from the west, I heard
the strains of Mondrian interwoven with Picasso; south of us, a post
mortem on the latest "betrayal" of this or that aspiration of "the
people", and to the north, we heard the mysteries of atonality. It was
while I was looking around, and letting these things roll over me, that
I saw the stranger enter. Jocelyn immediately bounced up from a couch,
leaving the crucial problem of atmosphere-poisoning via fission and/or
fusion bombs suspended, and made effusive noises.

This, then, was the "troubadour"--Mr. Fayliss. The Main Attraction was
decidedly prepossessing. Tall, peculiarly graceful both in appearance
and manner, dressed with an immaculateness that seemed excessive in this
post-Bohemian circle. There was a decided musical quality to his speech,
as he made polite comments upon being introduced to each of us, and an
exactness in sentence-structure, word-choices and enunciation that
bespoke the foreigner. Jocelyn took him around with the air of
conducting a quick tour through a museum, then settled him momentarily
with the music group, now in darkest Schoenberg, only partially
illuminated by "Wozzek". I watched Fayliss long enough to solidify an
impression that he was at ease here--but not merely in this particular
discussion. It was a case of his being simply at ease, period.

Kutrov was watching him, too, and I saw now that there would be a
most-likely permanent digression. Too bad--I'd had a feeling that when
he came to his point, it would have been a strong one. "Hungarian, do
you suppose?" he asked.

Alva examined the evidence. Fayliss had high cheekbones, longish eyes,
with large pupils. He was lean, without giving an impression of
thinness. He had not taken off his gloves, and I wondered if he would
come forth with a monocle; if he had, it would not have seemed an
affectation.

"I wouldn't say Slavic," Alva said. He started off on ethnology, and we
toured the Near East again. I jumped into the break when Kutrov was
swallowing beer and Alva lighting a cigaret to observe that Fayliss
reminded me of some Egyptian portraits--although I couldn't set the
period. "If those eyes of his don't shine in the dark," I added, "they
ought to."



A brief pause for appreciation, then Jocelyn was calling for all men's
attention. She managed to get it in reasonably short order, took a deep
breath, then dived into announcing that our "special guest, Mr. Fayliss"
was going to deliver a song-cycle.

Fayliss arose, bowed slightly, then nodded to Mark Loring, who brought
forth his oboe. "These songs were not conceived or composed in the form
I am presenting them," he said. "But I believe that the arrangement I
use is an effective one.

"I call this, 'Song of the Last Men'." He nodded again to Loring, and
the performance began. His voice was affecting, and his artistry
unmistakable. And there were overtones in his voice that gave an added
eeriness to the weird music itself.

The songs told of the feelings, the memories, and despair of a
nearly-extinct people--one which had achieved a great culture and a
world-wide civilization. The singer knows that the civilization has been
destroyed; that the people created by this culture and civilization are
gone, the few survivors being pitiful fellaheen, unable to rebuild or
bring forth a culture of their own. There is despair at the loss of the
comforts the civilization they knew brought them, sorrow at their
inability to share in its greatness--even in memory; and a resigned
certainty that they are the last of the race--they will soon be gone,
and no others shall arise after them.

There was silence when Fayliss finished, then discreet but firm
applause, as if the audience felt that giving full reign to their
approval would make an impious racket. Fayliss seemed to sense this
feeling, and smiled as he bowed.

"These are not songs of your people, are they?" asked Jocelyn.

Fayliss shook his head. "Oh no--they are far removed from us. I am
merely an explorer of past cultures and civilizations, and I enjoy
adapting such masterpieces of the past as I can find. This arrangement
was made for you; I shall make a different one for my own people, so
that the sonic values of the music and the words agree with each other."

Kutrov blinked, then asked him--"Well, can you tell us something more
about the people who created this cycle? It has a familiar ring to it,
yet I cannot tie it in with any past culture I have heard of."

Jocelyn cut in with the regretful announcement that Mr. Fayliss had
another appointment, and called for a note of thanks to him for coming.
More applause--this time unrestrained. Fayliss smiled again and swept
his eyes around us, as if filled with some amusing secret. Then he said
to Kutrov, "You would find them quite understandable."

I wandered over to the window, in search of air, and noted that someone
had indiscreetly left a comfortable chair vacant. I was near the door,
so that I could hear Jocelyn say to Fayliss: "It was--very moving. Why,
I could almost feel that you were singing about us."

Fayliss smiled again. "That is as it should be."

"Of course," chimed in Loring, who'd come up to ask Fayliss if he could
have a copy of the score, "that's the test of expert performance."

The lights were dimmed again by the fog of tobacco smoke, and I could
see the street quite clearly by moonlight. I decided I would watch
Fayliss, and see if his eyes did glow in the dark. I saw him go down the
sidewalk, with that graceful stride of his, his hands in his pockets.
But I couldn't see his eyes at all.

Then a gust of wind tugged his hat, and, for an instant I thought he'd
have to go scrambling after it. But, quick as a rapier thrust, a tail
darted out from beneath his dress coat, caught the hat, and set it back
upon his head.