CARLO,
OR KINDNESS REWARDED

McLOUGHLIN BROS NEW YORK




CARLO, OR KINDNESS REWARDED.


Ida was a kind-hearted girl, and one day when crossing a bridge near her
home, she saw two boys on the banks of the stream, trying to drown a
little dog.

Ida, like all good girls, could not bear to see anything suffer, and was
brave enough to try and prevent it. So, she ran to the shore, wringing
her hands, and crying loudly, "Oh! you bad, wicked boys! how can you be
so cruel to that poor little dog?"

The boys looked at her in wonder, for they were more thoughtless than
cruel; and one of them said, "Father sold the rest of the pups, but
could not sell this one, and so he told us to drown it." "Then he should
have done it himself," replied Ida, her pretty face flushing with anger
as she spoke, "and not have trusted it to boys, who would cause it
needless pain."

The dog had, by this time, reached the bank, and after politely shaking
off the water, crept timidly toward Ida, as if he knew her for a friend.
"Poor little fellow," she said, patting his head tenderly, "how pitiful
he looks! will you give him to me?" "Yes," said the boys, looking very
foolish, "we did not mean to be cruel. You may have him and welcome."

Ida thanked the boys very sweetly, and ran home.

"Oh! Mamma," she cried, "look at this dear little dog; two boys were
trying to drown him in the creek, and I asked them to give him to me.
May I keep him, dear Mamma?" "My dear child," said Mrs. Mason, (which
was the name of Ida's mother,) "I am very glad to hear that you saved
the little creature from pain. We cannot very well keep him here, but
perhaps, in a few days, we can find some one who will be kind to him."

Ida was a little disappointed, for we always love anything we have saved
from death, but she said nothing, and you will see in the end how her
goodness was rewarded. The next morning, Ida sat at the door of the
cottage, studying her lesson, while her new pet, little Carlo (as she
had named the dog) played at her feet. A pleasant looking young lad, who
was walking slowly down the road, switching the tall grass as he came,
stopped to look at the pretty picture. His name was Eugene Morris, and
he was the son of a rich gentleman, who lived near by. "Good morning,
Ida," he said, with a bow and a smile, "is that pretty little dog
yours?" "Yes, sir," said Ida, blushing a little; "but Mamma says I must
give him away, because we cannot afford to keep him." Ida then told the
story of the dog, and how she had saved him from the hands of the
thoughtless boys; and finished by saying that she was only keeping him,
until she could find some kind person who would take good care of him.
Eugene looked much pleased at her artless story, and after a short
pause, said, "Well, pretty Ida, I do not ask you to _give_ him to me,
but if you will _sell_ him, I will take him with pleasure. Here are five
dollars; will that pay for Carlo?" "We do not want any _pay_ for good
Carlo," said Ida, patting the little creature tenderly, "except a
promise of kind treatment, and that I am sure he will get from you."
Eugene looked pleased at this, and, with a "good-bye, then, till
to-morrow," went slowly down the road, and was soon out of sight. The
next morning, Eugene came, and took Carlo away, leaving five dollars
with Mrs. Mason, which he compelled her to take, for he knew she was
poor, and a widow. Ida cried a little when Carlo whined for her, but she
knew that he would be in good hands and soon dried her tears.

[Illustration: Ida Saving Carlo.]

One morning, about two years after Carlo had gone with his new master,
Ida was standing upon the same bridge, looking at some fish which darted
about in the water as if at play. At last they went further under the
bridge; and Ida, leaning over, a little too far, in her eagerness to see
them, lost her balance, and fell over the low rail into the creek,
which, at that point, was deep enough to drown her! She had but just
time to give one loud cry of fright, as she sunk beneath the cruel
water. In a moment, she rose to the top, but only to sink again. Poor
Ida! is there no one to help her? Yes, the good God who watches over
the smallest of his creatures has not forgotten little Ida. A large dog,
who lay lazily winking in the sunshine a little way off, has heard her
cry. He pricks up his ears, and comes swiftly toward her, with great
leaps--barking loudly as he jumps--in a moment he plunges into the
creek, and catches Ida by her dress just as she is about to sink for the
last time! Ida is heavy, and cannot help herself, but the dog is strong
and brave, and, swimming and tugging with all his might, he soon brings
her in safety to the shore. Then pulling her head out of the water, so
that it rested on the soft grass, he raised his head in the air, opened
his great mouth, and barked long and loudly for help. And help was near.
The master of the dog, a tall, handsome boy, came running up, "Why,
Carlo boy, what's the matter?" he said cheerily. But in a moment he saw
Ida still partly in the water, with her eyes closed, as if dead! He at
once drew her up on the bank, when she soon opened her eyes, and looked
around as if she did not know where she was. But Eugene Morris, for it
was he, said, "What! little Ida, nearly drowned. Why, how in the world
did you get in the water?" Ida was now well enough to tell her story;
and after she had finished, Eugene called her attention to the dog, at
the same time wrapping Ida in his overcoat, and leading her toward her
home. "Don't you know him?" he said, "it is your old friend Carlo; you
saved _his_ life, and now he has saved yours in return."

[Illustration: Eugene and Ida.]

How strange are the ways of God! The very dog which Ida saved from
death, two years before, had now been able to pay his debt to the
tender-hearted little girl, on the same spot! This surely is not chance,
but seems to show that good deeds are rewarded even in _this_ world.
Carlo, who was a well-bred dog, had shaken himself dry by this time, and
was rubbing his nose against Ida's dress, as if to say, "Don't you know
your old friend?"

As she was still weak, from the shock of the fall and the fright, Eugene
went home with her, and explained the thing to the alarmed Mrs. Mason,
after which he took his leave, promising to come and see her the next
day. Eugene was as good as his word; and early the next morning came
down to the widow's cottage, accompanied by a gentleman and a little
girl about four years old, whom Ida had never seen before. Carlo, of
course, was in the party, and was made much of by everybody, receiving a
great deal of attention, which he accepted with much dignity; sitting up
on his hind legs, wagging his tail, and giving vent, now and then, to a
short, amiable bark of thanks to his kind friends.

[Illustration: Carlo Saving Ida.]

The gentleman, who was Eugene's father, Mr. Morris, after kissing little
Ida, said, "this little girl whom I have brought to see you, is my only
daughter Lottie; and _you_ were the means of her having been saved from
drowning." Ida's look of surprise at this, was comical to see. "Not long
since," went on Mr. Morris, "our good Carlo saved _her_ life, just as he
did _yours_, yesterday. Eugene tells me, that, but for your goodness of
heart, Carlo would have been killed when he was a puppy; and in that
case I should have had no little Lottie to-day; for there was no one
near at the time but the nurse, who was too much frightened to be of any
use. I desire then, Mrs. Mason, with your permission, to make Ida a
little present." So saying, he kissed Ida again--put a small package
into her hand, and bowing politely, to the surprised Mrs. Mason; left
the cottage with his party, before she could find words to thank him.
The package proved to be a bank-book in which Ida was credited with five
thousand dollars in her own name! This was Mr. Morris's "little
present." Mrs. Mason owned the cottage in which she lived, but nothing
more; and was obliged to sew, early and late, to gain a scanty support
for Ida and herself. This money was, therefore, great wealth to them,
and would enable Mrs. Mason to fulfil the dearest wish of her heart,
which was to give a good education to her beloved Ida. Every kind action
is, I think, rewarded, either here or hereafter; yet we should try to do
good for its own sake, and leave the result to the great Father of us
all!