Minor punctuation and capitalization corrections have been made;
the word "eat" appears in the original (versus ate).




             THE
            HOUSE
             THAT
          JACK BUILT;

       A Game of forfeits.

        To which is added,
      The Entertaining Fable
              OF

         "THE MAGPIE."

 _Embellished with Engravings._

            LONDON:

     Printed and Sold by,

         E. MARSHALL,
      140, Fleet Street.
   From Aldermary Church-yard.

           PRICE, 1S.




[Illustration: This is the House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Malt, that lay in the House that Jack
built.]

[Illustration: This is the Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay in the
House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Cat, that killed the Rat, that eat the
Malt, that lay in the House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Dog, that worried the Cat, that killed
the Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay in the House that Jack
built.]

[Illustration: This is the Cow with the crumpled horn, that tossed
the Dog, that worried the Cat, that killed the Rat, that eat the
Malt, that lay in the House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Maiden, all forlorn, that milked the Cow
with the crumpled horn, that tossed the Dog, that worried the Cat,
that killed the Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay in the House that
Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Man all tattered and torn, that kissed
the Maiden all forlorn, who milked the Cow with the crumpled horn,
that tossed the Dog, that worried the Cat, that killed the Rat,
that eat the Malt, that lay in the House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Priest all shaven and shorn, who married
the Man all tattered and torn, unto the Maiden all forlorn, who
milked the Cow with the crumpled horn, that tossed the Dog, that
worried the Cat, that killed the Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay
in the House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Cock that crowed in the morn, that waked
the Priest all shaven and shorn, that married the Man all tattered
and torn, unto the Maiden all forlorn, who milked the Cow with
the crumpled horn, that tossed the Dog, that worried the Cat, that
killed the Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay in the House that Jack
built.]




THE MAGPIE

_A Fable._


The Magpie alone, of all the birds, had the art of building a nest;
the form of which was with a covering over head, and only a small
hole to creep out at.

The rest of the birds being without houses, desired the pie to
teach them how to build one. A day is appointed, and they all meet.
The Magpie then says, "You must first lay two sticks across,
thus."--"Aye," says the Crow, "I thought that was the way to
begin."--"Then lay a little straw, moss, and feathers, in such a
manner as this."--"Aye, without doubt," says the Starling, "that
necessarily follows; any one could tell how to do that."

When the Pie had gone on teaching them till the nest was built half
way, and every bird in his turn had known something or other, he
left off and said, "Gentlemen, I find you all know the method of
building nests as well, if not better, than I do myself, therefore
you cannot want any of my instruction:" So saying, he flew away,
and left them to upbraid each other with their folly; which is
visible to this day, as few birds beside the Magpie know how to
build more than half a nest.

FINIS.

[Illustration]

THE MAGPIE,

_A Fable._

_Printed & Sold by John Marshall, 140 Fleet Street London._