[Seal of the US Air Force]

FACT SHEET

USAF Fact Sheet 95-03

Unidentified Flying Objects and Air Force Project Blue Book


From 1947 to 1969, the Air Force investigated Unidentified Flying
Objects under Project Blue Book. The project, headquartered at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, was terminated Dec. 17, 1969. Of
a total of 12,618 sightings reported to Project Blue Book, 701 remained
"unidentified."

The decision to discontinue UFO investigations was based on an
evaluation of a report prepared by the University of Colorado entitled,
"_Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying Objects_;" a review of the
University of Colorado's report by the National Academy of Sciences;
previous UFO studies and Air Force experience investigating UFO reports
during the 1940s, '50s and '60s.

As a result of these investigations, studies and experience gained from
investigating UFO reports since 1948, the conclusions of Project Blue
Book were: (1) no UFO reported, investigated and evaluated by the Air
Force was ever an indication of threat to our national security; (2)
there was no evidence submitted to or discovered by the Air Force that
sightings categorized as "unidentified" represented technological
developments or principles beyond the range of modern scientific
knowledge; and (3) there was no evidence that sightings categorized as
"unidentified" were extraterrestrial vehicles.

With the termination of Project Blue Book, the Air Force regulation
establishing and controlling the program for investigating and analyzing
UFOs was rescinded. Documentation regarding the former Blue Book
investigation was permanently transferred to the Modern Military Branch,
National Archives and Records Service, Eighth Street and Pennsylvania
Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20408, and is available for public review
and analysis.

Since the termination of Project Blue Book, nothing has occurred that
would support a resumption of UFO investigations by the Air Force. Given
the current environment of steadily decreasing defense budgets, it is
unlikely the Air Force would become involved in such a costly project in
the foreseeable future.

There are a number of universities and professional scientific
organizations that have considered UFO phenomena during periodic
meetings and seminars. A list of private organizations interested in
aerial phenomena may be found in _Gale's Encyclopedia of Associations_.
Interest in and timely review of UFO reports by private groups ensures
that sound evidence is not overlooked by the scientific community.
Persons wishing to report UFO sightings should be advised to contact
local law enforcement agencies.


Point of Contact

News media requiring Project Blue Book files should contact the National
Archives Public Affairs Office, (202)-501-5525. Public queries should be
addressed to the Project Blue Book archivist at (202) 501-5385. For
queries not related to Project Blue Book, contact the National Archives
receptionist at (202) 501-5400.

(Current as of June 1995)