[The original book had illustrations on almost all pages.
Their location has not been individually marked. The
inconsistent hyphenization of "cuttle-fish" is in the
original.]




JAPANESE FAIRY TALE SERIES NO. 6

THE MOUSE'S WEDDING.


Griffith Farran & Co., London & Sydney, N.S.W.




  Kobunsha : Tokyo




THE

MOUSE'S WEDDING.


A long time ago there was a white mouse called
Kanemochi, servant of Daikoku, the God of Wealth.
His wife's name was Onaga. Both Kanemochi and his
wife were very discreet. Never in the day time nor
even at night did they venture into the parlor or
kitchen, and so they lived in tranquility free from
danger of meeting the cat. Their only son Fukutaro
also was of a gentle disposition. When he was old
enough to take a wife, his parents concluded to get
him one, transfer their property to him, and seek
retirement. Fortunately, one of their relatives
named Chudayu had a lovely daughter called Hatsuka.
Accordingly a go-between was employed to enter into
negotiations with Chudayu respecting the marriage.
When the young folks were allowed to see each other,
neither party objected, and so presents were
exchanged.

The bridegroom sent the bride the usual articles:
an obi or belt, silk cotton, dried bonito, dried
cuttle fish, white flax, sea-weed, and _sake_ or
rice wine. The bride sent the bridegroom in like
manner: a linen _kami-shimo_, dried bonito, dried
cuttle-fish, white flax, sea-weed, fish, and
_sake_; thus confirming the marriage promise.

A lucky day was then chosen, and every thing
prepared for the bride's removal to her new home,
her clothes were cut out and made, and needed
articles purchased. So Chudayu was kept busy
preparing for the wedding.

The parents made their daughter Hatsuka blacken her
teeth as a sign that she would not marry a second
husband; they also carefully taught her that
she must obey her husband, be dutiful to her
father-in-law, and love her mother-in-law.

Kanemochi on his part cleaned up his house inside
and out, made preparation for the marriage ceremony
and feast, assembled his relatives and friends, and
sent out many of his servants to meet the bride on
her way, and to give notice of her approach, that
all might be prepared for her reception.

Soon the bride came in her palanquin with her boxes
carried before her, and a long train of attendants
following her. Kanemochi went out as far as the gate
to meet her, and ushered her into the parlor.

At a signal from the go-between the bride and
bridegroom, to confirm the marriage bond, exchanged
between themselves three cups of _sake_, drinking
three times from each cup in turns. When this
ceremony, the "three times three" was ended, the
guests exchanged cups with the bride in token of
good will, and thus the union was consummated.

Shortly afterwards the bride, her husband, and his
parents visited her home. In the evening the bride
returned home with her husband and his parents with
whom she lived in harmony, contented, prosperous and
happy, and much to be congratulated.


  Printed by the Kobunsha in Tokyo, Japan




  The Kobunsha's
  Japanese Fairy Tale Series.

   1. Momotaro or Little Peachling.
   2. The Tongue Cut Sparrow.
   3. The Battle of the Monkey and the Crab.
   4. The Old Man who made the Dead Trees Blossom.
   5. Kachi-Kachi Mountain.
   6. The Mouse's Wedding.
   7. The Old Man and the Devils.
   8. Urashima, the Fisher-Boy.
   9. The Eight-Headed Serpent.
  10. The Matsuyama Mirror.
  11. The Hare of Inaba.
  12. The Cub's Triumph.
  13. The Silly Jelly-Fish.
  14. The Princes, Fire-flash and Fire-fade.
  15. My Lord Bag-O'-Rice.
  16. The Wooden Bowl.

  _Copyright reserved_