(1855?-1897) "How a novel is written" (from The Ladies' Home
Journal vol. VII No 2 Philadelphia January 1890 p.11)]




The Duchess


"How a novel is written"


The characters in my novels, you ask how I conceive them? Once the plot
is rescued from the misty depths of the mind, the characters come and
range themselves readily enough. A scene, we will say, suggests
itself--a garden, a flower show, a ball-room, what you will--and two
people in it. A _young_ man and woman for choice. They are _always_
young with me, for that matter, for what, under the heaven we are
promised, is so altogether perfect as youth! If any one of you, dear
readers, is as bad a sleeper as I am, you will understand how thoughts
swarm at midnight. Busy, bustling, stinging bees, they forbid the
needed rest, and, thronging the idle brain, compel attention. Here in
the silent hours the ghosts called characters walk, smiling, bowing,
nodding, pirouetting, going like marionettes through all their paces.
At night I have had my gayest thoughts, at night my saddest. All things
seem open then to that giant, Imagination. Here, lying in the dark,
with as yet no glimmer of the coming dawn, no faintest light to show
where the closed curtains join, too indolent to rise and light the
lamp, too sleepy to put one's foot out of the well-warmed bed, praying
fruitlessly for that sleep that will not come--it is at such moments
as theses that my mind lays hold of the novel now in hand, and works
away at it with a vigor, against which the natural desire for sleep
hopelessly makes battle.

Just born this novel may be, or half completed; however it is, off goes
my brain at a tangent. Scene follows scene, one touching the other; the
character unconsciously falls into shape; the villain takes a rudy hue;
the hero dons a white robe; as for the heroine, who shall say what dyes
from Olympia are not hers? A conversation suggests itself, an act
thrusts itself into notice. Lightest of skeletons all these must
necessarily be, yet they make up eventually the big whole, and from the
brain wanderings of one wakeful night three of four chapters are
created for the next morning's work. As for the work itself, mine is
perhaps strangely done, for often I have written the last chapter
first, and founded my whole story on the one episode that it contained.