[Illustration]


 _Sound the fanfare! Beat the drums!
 Shout hosannas! Here he comes...._


CELEBRITY

By James McKimmey, Jr.

Illustrated by PAUL ORBAN


June 19, 1978. Celebrity day.

The city stretched. Empty streets glistened from the bath of a water
truck. Dew-wet grass winked at the fresh peeping sun, like millions of
shimmering diamonds. A bird chirped. Another. The city yawned.

Rows of houses lay like square ivory beads on patches of green felt. A
boy drove his bicycle down the middle of an elm-bordered avenue,
whistling loudly, while tightly rolled newspapers arced from his hand
and slapped against porches.

Lights snapped on in a thousand windows, shining yellowly against the
cool whiteness of dawn. Men blinked and touched beard-stubbled chins.
Women moved sleepily toward porcelain and chrome kitchens.

A truck roared and garbage pails rattled. There was a smell of sour
orange rinds and wet leaves and unfolding flowers. Over this came the
smell of toasting bread and frying bacon.

Doors swung open, slippered feet padded across porches and hands groped
for the rolled newspapers. The air was stricken with the blaring sound
of transcribed music and the excited voices of commercial announcers.
The doors swung shut and the sounds were muted.

A million people shifted and stretched and scratched. The sun rose above
the horizon.

Celebrity day.



Doors slammed again, and half-consumed cups of coffee lay cooling
behind. Children wiped at sleepy eyes and mothers swept crumbs, touching
self-conscious fingers at their own bed-ruffled hair. Laborers and
clerks and lawyers and doctors strode down sidewalks and climbed into
automobiles and busses and sleek-nosed elevated trains. The city moved.

To the center of the city, where the tall buildings stretched to the
lighting sky, came the horde, like thousands of ants toward a comb of
honey. Wheels sang and whined. Horns blasted. Whistles blew.

And waiting, strung above the wide streets between the cold marquees and
the dead neon tubes, were the banners and the flags and the bunting.

The air warmed and the sun brightened. Voices chattered. Elbows nudged.
Mouths smiled, teeth shone, and there was the sound of laughter, rising
over the pushing throngs. The city was happy.

The bunting dipped and the banners fluttered and the flags whipped. At
the edge of the city, the airport tightened itself. Waiting, waiting for
the silver and blue rocket. The rocket of the Celebrity.

A large hotel, towering above the pulsing streets, began the quiver of
activity. As though a great electric current had been run through its
cubes and shafts and hollows, the hotel crackled. Desk clerks clicked
bells and bell boys hopped. Elevators rose and fell. In the cellar, wine
bottles were dusted by quick, nervous hands. In the kitchen, a towering
cake was frosted and decorated. Orders cracked. Hands flew and feet
chattered against tile. In one rich expansive suite a giant hoop of
multi-colored flowers was placed in the center of a room.

It was in the air. Laughter, awe, worship, _excitement_!

Ropes went up and stretched between lamp posts. Blue-coated men on
horses began blocking streets. Old women with wooden boxes, children
with flashing eyes, men in rich suits and tattered suits began filling
the sidewalks.

Curbs became lined with people. Bars threw open doors and fresh air met
stale air. Men with fat faces, thin faces, white faces, red faces,
twitching with the anticipation of holiday freedom, gulped jiggers of
raw whiskey and shuddered happily.

Children giggled and yelled and sprinted in crazy zig-zags. Men in white
caps hustled in front of the lined curbs, shouting, carrying their boxes
of ice-cream. Men with buttons, men with pennants, men with balloons
joined the shouting, and the sound rose in the air and the city smiled
and shifted and its heart pounded.

The hotel whirred inside itself. The airport tensed and searched the
sky.



Time moved and the swelling throngs jammed the sidewalks, raising their
strengthening sound between the tall buildings. Windows popped open and
faces beamed. Tentative showers of confetti drifted down through the
air.

The city waited, its pulse thumping.

The rocket was a black point in the sky. It grew. White-suited men
scattered over the landing strip. Photographers crouched. Bulbs snapped
into reflectors. Cameras pointed.

The rocket landed. A door snapped open. Blue uniforms converged and
flash bulbs popped. There were shouts and orders and men running. Gates
swung and there was a blue-rimmed movement to a black open car. Sirens
moaned, screamed. And the black car was moving swiftly into the city.

Beneath the buildings, marching bands in red and blue and yellow
uniforms stood assembled. Girls in short skirts and tasseled hats spun
silver batons into the warm air. Bare legs kicked. Black boots flashed.

The crowd swayed against the ropes, and there was laughter and sweating
and squinting.

The black car reached the heart of the city. Sirens died. Rows of men
snapped to attention. Policemen aligned their motorcycles.

A baton shimmered high against the sun and came down.

A cymbal crashed. Drums cracked. Music blared. And there was a movement
down the street.

The black car rolled along, while tape swept down from the buildings in
long swirling ribbons. There was a snow of confetti. And from the
throats of the people came the first roar. It grew, building, building
in volume, and the city thundered its welcome to the man sitting upon
the back of the open car, the small man who tipped his hat and smiled
and blinked behind his glasses: Joseph S. Stettison, B.A., B.S., M.S.,
M.D., Ph.D., L.M. (Hon.), F.R.C.O.G.


THE END