The MEDLEY.

[Illustration]

PORTLAND: BAILEY & NOYES




THE MEDLEY.

[Illustration]

PORTLAND: BAILEY & NOYES.




[Illustration]

ANCHOR.


I love to look on an Anchor. Like a good friend who helps you in
trouble, it holds the ship steady in a storm. Its flukes sink deep into
the bottom of the sea, or cling to the rocks, and nothing but a great
storm can separate it from the cable which is fastened to the vessel.
Anchors are of solid iron and very heavy; and cables are made of hemp or
of iron chain. Large ships have four anchors, small vessels two. Hope is
called the anchor of the soul, because, as the ship is held by the
anchor which lies in the sea, so the soul is supported by Hope which is
cast in Heaven.




[Illustration]

WIND-MILL.


The Wind-Mill has sails fixed to very long poles, and when the wind
blows strong, round go the wings. As the wings blow round, they carry
round a large stone inside the house; this stone rubs on top of another
mill-stone, and corn is put between them, which is thus broken and
ground into meal. We cannot eat corn till it is ground; but horses can.
Some mill-stones are likewise carried round by a stream of running
water, and some by the steam of boiling water. There are a number of
water-mills on the Mill-dam which leads from Boston to Roxbury.

There is a wind-mill in Boston, which stands in Sea-street, near the new
bridge to South-Boston.

There is a steam-mill next to the iron-works at South-Boston, which
grinds corn and grain.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

FLAG.


Here waves the Flag, which all nations respect. It is sometimes called
The Colours. In war, the soldiers carry a Flag waving over their heads,
to show, that, as long as it is raised, they are not beaten; and the
soldiers look to it as a place or rallying point where they must all
join if forced to separate. Flags are hoisted on a ship's mast to tell
to what nation she belongs, and every nation has a different one. The
American Flag has thirteen stripes, to show how many States first formed
the United States, and it has as many stars as there are States at this
time.




[Illustration]

TENT


Did you ever see a tent? This sort of house is common in warm climates.
The Israelites, of whom you read in the bible, lived in tents forty
years. Soldiers live in tents, when they march from home; and at night
they take the canvass out of their waggons or baggage-carts, and pitch
the tents in any convenient field. Four soldiers live in one tent, and
lie upon clean straw, taking their knapsacks for pillows. Their guns and
their swords are hung around overhead.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

CANNON.


When the cannon is fired only for the purpose of noise, no ball is put
in; nothing but powder and the wad. On Washington's birth-day, on the
fourth day of July, and on some training days, cannon are used to make a
noise, and the louder it is so much the better. Never be afraid of the
cannon noise when there is no ball to hurt you.




[Illustration]

CLOCK.


You all know what a clock is, and how it strikes every hour. One, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve. It then
begins one again, and so goes on, and has no end. In the middle of the
day it strikes twelve, and in the middle of the night also. When it
strikes five in summer mornings, then you must rise. When it strikes
seven in winter mornings, then you must rise; at eight, eat breakfast;
dine at two; and sup at five; go to bed at eight; sleep whilst the clock
ticks all night, and wake in the morning to hear it strike again.




[Illustration]

BARGE.


[Illustration]

A Barge is a large boat driven along with oars, and rowed by eight or
ten men, with one man at the helm to steer her course through the sea.
It belongs to a ship of war, or to a fort, and is used for the purpose
of carrying officers to the shore. The barge has what is called a round
house, on her quarter deck to keep off the hot sun or the rain. How
sweet, in a calm day, to sail on the water, feeling the soft wind
blowing health and cheerfulness into our cheeks! But many accidents
happen on the water through carelessness.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]