JAPANESE
                               FAIRY TALE
                              SERIES NO 1

                               MOMOTARO.

                             [Illustration]




            [Japanese: sei-fuku-kyo-fu-roku-to-ken-saku-cho]
                          ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

                              Published by
                              T. HASEGAWA,
                     17 Kami Negishi, Tokyo, Japan.

                             [Illustration]






                                MOMOTARO
                                   OR
                           LITTLE PEACHLING.

                             [Illustration]

                             [Illustration]

A long long time ago there lived an old man and an old woman. One day
the old man went to the mountains to cut grass; and the old woman went
to the river to wash clothes. While she was washing a great big thing
came tumbling and splashing down the stream. When the old woman saw it
she was very glad, and pulled it to her with a piece of bamboo that lay
near by.

                             [Illustration]

When she took it up and looked at it she saw that it was a very large
peach. She then quickly finished her washing and returned home intending
to give the peach to her old man to eat.

                             [Illustration]

When she cut the peach in two, out came a child from the large kernel.
Seeing this the old couple rejoiced, and named the child Momotaro, or
Little Peachling, because he came out of a peach. As both the old people
took good care of him, he grew and became strong and enterprising. So
the old couple had their expectations raised, and bestowed still more
care on his education.

                             [Illustration]

                             [Illustration]

Momotaro finding that he excelled every body in strength determined to
cross over to the island of the devils, take their riches, and come
back. He at once consulted with the old man and the old woman about the
matter, and got them to make him some dumplings. These he put in his
pouch. Besides this he made every kind of preparation for his journey to
the island of the devils and set out.

                             [Illustration]

                             [Illustration]

Then first a dog came to the side of the way and said; "Momotaro! What
have you there hanging at your belt?" He replied: "I have some of the
very best Japanese millet dumplings." "Give me one and I will go with
you," said the dog. So Momotaro took a dumpling out of his pouch and
gave it to the dog. Then a monkey came and got one the same way. A
pheasant also came flying and said: "Give me a dumpling too, and I will
go I along with you." So all three went along with him. In no time they
arrived at the island of the devils, and at once broke through the front
gate; Momotaro first; then his three followers. Here they met a great
multitude of the devil's retainers who showed fight, but they pressed
still inwards, and at last encountered the chief of the devils, called
Akandoji. Then came the tug of war. Akandoji made at Momotaro with an
iron club, but Momotaro was ready for him, and dodged him adroitly. At
last they grappled each other, and without difficulty Momotaro just
crushed down Akandoji and tied him with a rope so tight that he could
not even move. All this was done in a fair fight.

                             [Illustration]

                             [Illustration]

                             [Illustration]

After this Akandoji the chief of the devils said he would surrender all
his riches. "Out with your riches then;" said Momotaro laughing. Having
collected and ranged in order a great pile of precious things, Momotaro
took them, and set out for his home, rejoicing, as he marched bravely
back, that, with the help of his three companions, to whom he attributed
all his success, he had been able so easily to accomplish his end.

                             [Illustration]

                             [Illustration]

Great was the joy of the old man and the old woman when Momotaro came
back. He feasted every body bountifully, told many stories of his
adventure, displayed his riches, and at last became a leading man, a man
of influence, very rich and honorable; a man to be very much
congratulated indeed!!

                             [Illustration]




                      JAPANESE FAIRY TALE SERIES.

            1. Momotaro or Little Peachling.
            2. The Tongue Cut Sparrow.
            3. The Battle of the Monkey and the Crab.
            4. The Old Man who made the Dead Trees Blossom.
            5. Kachi-Kachi Mountain.
            6. The Mouses' Wedding.
            7. The Old Man and the Devils.
            8. Urashima, the Fisher-boy.
            9. The Eight-Headed Serpent.
           10. The Matsuyama Mirror.
           11. The Hare of Inaba.
           12. The Cub's Triumph.
           13. The Silly Jelly-Fish.
           14. The Princes Fire-Flash and Fire-Fade
           15. My Lord Rag-o'-Rice.
           16. The Wonderful Tea-Kettle.
           17. Schippeitaro.
           18. The Ogre's Arm.
           19. The Ogres of Oyeyama.
           20. The Enchanted Waterfall.
           2nd Series No. 1. The Goblin-Spider.
            "     "    "  2. The Wonderful Mallet.
            "     "    "  3. The Broken Images.

                             [Illustration]