surf the archive of the web by date. In 2004, there were 300 terabytes
of data, with a growth of 12 terabytes per month. There were 65 billion
webpages (from 50 million websites) in 2006, 85 billion webpages in
2008, and 150 billion webpages in March 2010.

April 1996 > OneLook Dictionaries, a "fast finder" in online
dictionaries

Robert Ware launched his website OneLook Dictionaries in April 1996 as
a "fast finder" in hundreds of online dictionaries. On September 2,
1998, the fast finder could "browse" 2,058,544 words in 425
dictionaries covering various topics: business, computer/internet,
medical, miscellaneous, religion, science, sports, technology, general,
and slang. OneLook Dictionaries was provided as a free service by the
company Study Technologies, in Englewood, Colorado. OneLook
Dictionaries could browse 2.5 million words from 530 dictionaries in
2000, 5 million words from 910 dictionaries in 2003, and 19 million
words from 1,060 dictionnaries in 2010.

Mai 1996 > DAISY, a standard for digital audiobooks

Founded in May 1996, the DAISY Consortium (DAISY first meant "Digital
Audio Information System" before meaning "Digital Accessible
Information System") is an international consortium responsible for the
transition from analog audiobooks available on tapes or cassettes to
digital audiobooks. Its task was to define an international standard,
to set up the conditions for the production exchange and use of
audiobooks, and to organize the digitization of audiobooks worldwide.
The DAISY standard is based on the DTB (Digital Talking Book) format,
which allows the indexing of audiobooks with bookmarks for paragraphs,
pages, and chapters, to make it easier to navigate through the books.

October 1996 > The @folio project, for a novel reading device

The @folio project is a reading device project conceived in October
1996 by Pierre Schweitzer, an architect-designer living in Strasbourg,
France. It is meant to download and read any text and/or illustrations
from the web or hard disk, in any format, with no proprietary format
and no DRM (Digital Rights Management). The technology of @folio is
novel and simple. It is inspired from fax and tab file folders. The
flash memory is "printed" like Gutenberg printed his books. The
facsimile mode is readable as is for any content, from sheet music to
mathematical or chemical formulas, with no conversion necessary,
whether it is handwritten text, calligraphy, free hand drawing or non-
alphabetical writing. An international patent was filed in April 2001.
The French start-up iCodex was created in July 2002 to promote and
develop @folio.

1996 > A web version for the Ethnologue, a catalog of all living
languages

Published by SIL International (SIL was initially known as the Summer
Institute of Linguistics) since 1951, and freely available on the web
since 1996, The Ethnologue: Languages of the World is an encyclopedic
reference work cataloging all of the world's known living languages. As
stated by Barbara Grimes, its editor from 1971 to 2000: "It is a
catalog of the languages of the world, with information about where
they are spoken, an estimate of the number of speakers, what language
family they are in, alternate names, names of dialects, other socio-
linguistic and demographic information, dates of published Bibles, a
name index, a language family index, and language maps." Thousands of
linguists have contributed to the Ethnologue worldwide. A new edition
is published approximately every four years. The 16th edition was
published in 2009, in print (for sale) and on the web (for free), with
information on the 6,909 living languages of our planet.

1996 > Merriam-Webster Online

Merriam-Webster, a main publisher of English-language dictionaries,
launched the website "Merriam-Webster Online: The Language Center" in
1996 to give free access to online resources stemming from its print
publications: Webster Dictionary, Webster Thesaurus, Webster's Third (a
lexical landmark), Guide to International Business Communications,
Vocabulary Builder (with interactive vocabulary quizzes), and the
Barnhart Dictionary Companion (hot new words). The goal of the website
has also been to help track down definitions, spellings,
pronunciations, synonyms, vocabulary exercises, and other key facts
about words and language.

1996 > A main French-language dictionary online

The "Dictionnaire Universel Francophone en Ligne" (Universal French-
Language Online Dictionary) was the web version of the "Dictionnaire
Universel Francophone", published by Hachette, a major French
publisher, and the AUPELF-UREF (which later became the AUF: Agence
Universitaire de la Francophonie - University Agency of Francophony).
The dictionary included not only standard French but also the French-
language words and expressions used worldwide. French is an official
language in 50 countries, for 500 million people worldwide. The AUF is
a branch of the OIF (Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie --
International Organization of French-speaking Countries), founded in
1970 as an instrument of multilateral cooperation at the international
level. As a side remark, English and French are the only official
and/or cultural languages that are widely spread on five continents.

1996 > Digitalization

"Digitalization has made it possible to create, record, manipulate,
combine, store, retrieve and transmit information and information-based
products in ways which magnetic tape, celluloid and paper did not
permit. Digitalization thus allows music, cinema and the written word
to be recorded and transformed through similar processes and without
distinct material supports. Previously dissimilar industries, such as
publishing and sound recording, now both produce CD-ROM rather than
simply books and records" (excerpt from the Proceedings of the
Symposium on Multimedia Convergence, International Labor Organization,
January 1997). In book publishing, digitization speeded up the
editorial process, which used to be sequential, by allowing the copy
editor, the image editor and the layout staff to work at the same time
on the same book. In mainstream media, journalists and editors could
now type in their articles online, and these articles went directly
from text to layout, without being keyed in anymore by the production
staff.

January 1997 > The multimedia convergence

Previously distinct information-based industries, such as printing,
publishing, graphic design, media, sound recording and film making,
were converging into one industry, with information as a common
product. This trend was named "multimedia convergence", with a massive
loss of jobs, and a serious enough issue to be tackled by the ILO
(International Labor Organization) as early as 1997. The first ILO
Symposium on Multimedia Convergence was held in January 1997 at the ILO
headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, with employers, unionists, and
government representatives from all over the world. Some participants,
mostly employers, demonstrated the information society was generating
or would generate jobs. Other participants, mostly unionists,
demonstrated there was a rise in unemployment worldwide, that should be
addressed right away through investment, innovation, vocational
training, computer literacy, retraining, and fair labor rights,
including for teleworkers.

April 1997 > E Ink, for the development of an electronic ink

In April 1997, researchers at the MIT Media Lab (MIT: Massachusetts
Institute of Technology) created the company E Ink to develop an
electronic ink technology. Very briefly, the technology was the
following one: caught between two sheets of flexible plastic, millions
of micro-capsules, each of them containing black and white particles,
are in suspension in a clear fluid. A positive or negative electric
field indicates the desired group of particles on the surface, to view,
modify or delete data. In July 2002, E Ink showed the prototype of the
first screen using this technology. This screen was marketed in 2004.
Other screens followed for various reading devices, including the first
black and white flexible displays announcing the forthcoming
"electronic paper".

May 1997 > Barnes & Noble launched its own online bookstore

Barnes & Noble, a leading bookseller with 481 stores nationwide in the
United States, entered the world of e-commerce in 1997. Barnes & Noble
first launched its America OnLine (AOL) website in March 1997 - as the
exclusive bookseller for 12 million AOL customers -, before launching