[Front cover:
  CURIOUS
  CREATURES

  COMIC
  ANIMAL
  SERIES

  _Copyright 1898
  McLoughlin Bros
  New York_]




[Illustration: A giraffe playing the piano ]

    This talented Giraffe can play
    In such a skillful, pleasing way,
    That every one who hears agrees
    That he is Master of the Keys;
    So 'tis not strange at all that he
    Should hold his head high, as you see.

    Here's a Horse that is no shirker,
    But a busy, willing worker,
    For at the steaming washing-tub
    All day, like this, 'twill stand and rub.
    A Horse so good at washing clothes,
    A clothes-horse might be called, I s'pose.

[Illustration: A horse with a washing board.]

[Illustration: MISS MINNIE MOUSECATCHER PLAYING CROQUET.]

[Illustration: CAPTAIN KINGFISHER OUT FOR A DAY'S SPORT.]


THE DOGGIES' PROMENADE.

    Three dogs went out for a promenade
      All on a summer's day;
    There was Mr. Dog, and Mrs. Dog,
      And little Doggie Tray.

    And as they walked down the crowded street,
      They were proud as proud could be,
    For they were dressed in their very best,
      As every one could see.

    But a mischievous cat on the sidewalk stood,
      No coat, no hat had she;
    So she laughed at the dress and the pompousness
      Of the dog and his family.

    Mr. Dog growled deep, and sprang at the cat,
      And chased her up and down,
    With an angry cry, and a flashing eye,
      Throughout the wondering town.

[Illustration: A dog in a suit chasing a cat.]

    But he tripped in his haste against a stone,
      And fell in the slippery street,
    And when he arose, lo! his stylish clothes
      Were mud from head to feet.

[Illustration: A dog in a suit, with mud on his clothes, standing next
to his wife and child.]

    And Mrs. Dog, when she saw his plight,
      With horror swooned away,
    And sank right down, with her silken gown,
      On a heap of soft red clay.

    Wee Baby Dog was in sad distress;
      He sought for his cap in vain;
    His kilt was torn, he was all forlorn,
      And his tears fell down like rain.

    But the roguish cat at her fireside sat,
      And thought of her fun that day;
    And she jumped and danced, and purred and pranced,
      At the doggies running away.

[Illustration: JUMBO JOLLIBOY SINGING A COMIC SONG.]

[Illustration: JOCKO PRETTYFACE PERFORMING ON THE TIGHT-ROPE.]

[Illustration: Two sleeping pigs.]

    Two little pigs were in a pen;
    One little pig ran away and then
    Then there was only one!
      One little pig to stay at home
        One little pig that loved to roam--
          Over the fields to run.

    Both pig's tails were curled up tight,
    One to the left, and one to the right;
        Two little pigs in a pen!
    Some of the time they would take their ease,
    Up in a corner as snug as you please.
    You should have seen them then.

[Illustration: Two pigs, one escaping from the sty.]

[Illustration: A pig hiding from his master in the woods.]

    One little pig that ran away--
    The one with his tail to the left, they say--
    Knew well it was not right
    To go so far. He could not be found
    Though his master searched the woods around;
          And so he was out all night.

    But when that pig came back--Oh! then
    He wished that he had not left the pen.
          How sorry he did feel!
    For the master tied the naughty pig's leg,
    With a good stout rope, to a good stout peg!
    Oh! you should have heard him squeal.

[Illustration: A squealing pig tied to a peg.]