[Illustration]

  No. 35.

  THE BLIND BEGGAR
  OF JERICHO.

  BY THE AUTHOR OF "PEEP OF DAY."

  LONDON:
  JOHN HATCHARD AND SON.
  1848.




[Illustration]

THE BLIND BEGGAR OF

JERICHO.


It is very common to see blind men begging in the streets. Do not you
pity the blind? How sad it must be never to see the light of the sun,
nor the green leaves in spring, nor the faces of our dearest friends!

A long while ago a blind man sat begging by the side of the road. As
he sat he heard the noise of a great crowd walking along. He did not
know why there was such a crowd, so he asked the people passing by why
so many had come together. They told him that Jesus of Nazareth was
passing that way. The blind man had heard before of Jesus. He had
heard that he could do great wonders, and he felt sure in his heart
that Jesus could make him see. But the blind man could not go to
him--how could he dare to stir in such a crowd? He might have been
pushed down and trodden upon and crushed to death. But he could speak.
He cried out very loud, "Have mercy on me, O Lord." He did not cry out
once or twice, he kept on crying out, hoping that Jesus would hear
him. But the Lord took no notice of him, and a great many people came
up to him and told him not to make such a noise. Yet the poor man
would not be quiet; he knew that the Lord was passing by, and that he
might soon be gone, and that he might never pass that way again, so he
cried out more than ever, "Lord, have mercy on me!" And did the Lord
take notice of him at last? Yes, he did; he stood still, and told the
people to bring that blind man to him. How kind it was in Jesus to
care for the blind beggar! Jesus is very kind, and cares for every
poor creature in the world. At last the blind man heard some one speak
kindly to him, and say, "Be of good comfort; rise, he calleth thee."
How glad he was to hear that Jesus had sent for him! He got up very
quickly, and went to Jesus, for now the people made room for him. No
one now was rude to the poor beggar, for Jesus had called for him.

And what did Jesus say to him? He asked him this question, "What do
you wish me to do for you?" The man replied, "Lord, that I may receive
my sight." Jesus pitied him very much, and he touched his eyes, and
said, "Receive thy sight." That moment he was able to see. How glad he
now was that he had cried out, "Lord, have mercy on me," and that he
had not left off when the people told him not to make a noise! He
would not leave Jesus now he had found him, but went after him on the
road, praising him, and thanking God for his goodness.

If all people would pray as this blind man did, Jesus would hear them
all. The child who reads this book is not blind. If you were blind how
could you read to father or to mother? But there is something which
Jesus could do for you, that would make you happy for ever. What is
it? Do you know? If he were to say, "What do you wish me to do for
you?" what would you answer? I should like you to say, "Forgive me my
sins, and give me thy Holy Spirit." My dear child, do make this little
prayer every day. Jesus would hear you. Perhaps you live in a very
poor place. Perhaps you live in a little room in town, up some dark
and narrow stairs; perhaps there is very little furniture in it, and
very little food in the cupboard, but Jesus knows where you live, and
he knows your name, and your father's name, and your mother's name,
and he hears all you say. He would be much pleased to hear you praying
to him, because he loves you, and he once died upon the cross that
you might not go to hell. If you go to heaven you will see the blind
beggar there--I mean the beggar who once was blind. Then you will sing
with him about the love of Jesus in saving your souls.

If you wish to read a full account of this blind man, you will find it
in Mark x. 46 to end, and also in Luke xviii. 35 to end.




    When Jesus Christ was here below,
      And spread his works of love abroad,
    If I had lived so long ago,
      I think I should have loved the Lord.

    Jesus, who was so very kind,
      Who came to pardon sinful men,
    Who heal'd the sick, and cur'd the blind:
      Oh, must not I have loved him then?

    But where is Jesus? Is he dead?
      Oh, no; he lives in heaven above:
    "And blest are they," the Saviour said,
      "Who, though they have not seen me, love."

    He sees us from his throne on high
      As well as when on earth he dwelt;
    And when to him poor children cry,
      He feels such love as then he felt.

    And if the Lord will grant me grace,
      Much I will love him and adore;
    But when in heaven I see his face,
      'Twill be my joy to love him more.

  _Jane Taylor._


  THE END.


  Macintosh, Printer, Great New-street, London.




PRAYER.


    O Father in Heaven,
    Thou hast made all things;
    The sun, moon, and stars, the land and sea.
    Thou hast made me.
    Thou hast taken care of me.
    I thank Thee for all thy kindness.

    Great God, Thou art in every place;
    Thou seest in the dark,
    As well as in the light;
    Thou knowest all the naughty things
    That I have done, and said, and thought.

    O Merciful Lord, pardon my sins,
    Because Jesus Christ, thy dear Son,
    Died upon the cross for sinners.
    Give me thy Holy Spirit,
    That I may love Thee, and obey thy laws.
    Keep me from minding Satan,
    And save me from going to hell:
    And whenever I die,
    O take my soul to Heaven.

    When Jesus comes with clouds,
    And with the holy angels,
    May I be glad to see Him.
    May my dear parents, and brothers, and sisters,
    Be happy with Thee for ever and ever.
    May all people love Thee,
    And speak of thy goodness.
    Hear me for Christ's sake. Amen.