[Illustration]

  BIBLE
  STORIES AND PICTURES.

  FROM THE
  OLD AND NEW TESTAMENTS.

  [Illustration: The Crucifixion of Christ.]

  NEW HAVEN.
  Published by S. Babcock.

  1842.




BIBLE

STORIES AND PICTURES.




[Illustration]

MOSES VIEWING CANAAN.


When the children of Israel were journeying from Egypt to the land of
Canaan, Moses disobeyed one command of the Lord. For this act, God
told him he should not enter the Land of Promise. But as Moses
repented of his sin, God said he should be permitted to see the land.

So, when they arrived near Canaan, God said to Moses, Go to mount
Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, and I will shew thee the land which I have
promised to the children of Israel; and after that thou shalt die.

Then Moses went to the top of the mount, where he could see the land
which the children of Israel were to inherit. And God then said to
Moses, This is the land which I promised to Abraham, to Isaac, and to
Jacob; I have caused thee to see it, but thou shalt not go into it.




[Illustration]

SAMSON CARRYING AWAY THE

GATES OF GAZA.


Samson was one of the judges of Israel, after the death of Moses. He
was the strongest man that ever lived. In his time the Philistines
were at war with the Israelites. These Philistines were a nation of
heathen, who worshipped idols instead of the great God who made us
all. Samson in one battle killed a thousand of them with the jaw-bone
of an ass. After this, they found out one night that he was in their
walled city, called Gaza, and so they fastened the great gates of the
city, thinking they could in this way keep him there till morning, and
then kill him.

But Samson arose at midnight and took the two great gates of the city,
with the bar and the gate posts, and carried them to the top of a high
hill, a great way off. In this way he escaped out of the hands of his
enemies.




[Illustration]

DAVID AND GOLIATH.


While Saul was king of Israel, the Philistines made war upon him and
his people. Among them was a giant, named Goliath, who went out in
front of Saul's camp, in the morning and evening, for forty days, and
offered to fight any man in his army.

David, who was then a mere shepherd-boy, heard of this giant and his
boastful challenge. He offered to go out and fight Goliath, trusting
that God would enable him to conquer this proud enemy of his people. So
he went out, taking with him only his sling and a few smooth pebbles.
When Goliath saw him, he laughed at the Israelites for sending a mere
boy to fight him. But David threw a stone with his sling with such force
as to drive it into the giant's forehead. He then cut off his head with
Goliath's own sword, and carried it to king Saul in triumph.




[Illustration]

JOHN BAPTIZING CHRIST.


When Jesus Christ was about thirty years old, he began to preach the
glad tidings of salvation. About the same time, John the Baptist was
also preaching to the people and baptizing them. He lived in the
wilderness, and wore a garment of camel's hair, with a leathern girdle
about his loins. He told of the coming of Christ, and warned all to
repent of their sins. Many believed and were baptized.

Jesus also went to him to be baptized. John with great humility said,
I have more need to be baptized by thee. But Jesus answered, Suffer it
to be so this time. Then John baptized him in the river Jordan, and as
he was coming out of the water, the Spirit of God descended upon him
in the form of a dove, and a voice from heaven was heard, saying, This
is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.




[Illustration]

WATER CHANGED TO WINE.


One of the first miracles performed by our Savior, was at Cana in
Gallilee. There was a wedding there, and he and his disciples were
among the guests. Mary, the mother of Jesus, was also one of the
company. Before the wedding feast was over, the wine was all gone, and
Mary said to her son, They have no wine. Then Jesus ordered the
servants to fill six water-pots, which were standing near, with water;
and they filled them up to the brim. He then said to them, Draw out
now and bear some to the ruler of the feast. And they did so.

When the ruler of the feast, who knew nothing of all this, had drank
of the water which was made wine, he said to the bridegroom, Most men
serve out the best wine first, and after that the poorer; but you have
kept the good wine till now.




[Illustration]

CHRIST BLESSING CHILDREN.


Some mothers brought their little children to the Savior, that he
might bless them. His disciples, however, told the women to go away
and not trouble their master with children. Then Jesus, hearing this,
reproved his disciples and said, Suffer little children to come unto
me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. And he
then took them in his arms and blessed them.

Should you not like the Lord Jesus to bless you, my dear little
reader? Then pray to him and he will do so. He is the same kind friend
to little children now that he was then, and he loves all who love and
serve him. Try, then, to be good, and he will love and bless you. You
will then be happy in this world, and when you come to die you will go
to heaven and be happy with him in the world to come.




[Illustration]

CONVERSION OF SAINT PAUL.


There was a young man named Saul; he was a Pharisee, and a man of
great learning, but he hated all the followers of Christ, who were
then called, as they are now, by the name of Christians. So great was
his hatred, that he put many of them in prison and was in favor of
having others put to death.

Once, when he was going to the city of Damascus, with authority to take
the followers of Jesus prisoners, a light suddenly shone upon him with
exceeding great brightness. It was so dazzling that he could not bear
it, and he fell from his horse to the ground. At the same time he heard
a voice calling out, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And Saul
asked, Who art thou, Lord? Then the voice answered, I am Jesus, whom
thou persecutest. Then said Saul, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? He
was told to go to the city and he should be there shown what to do.

When he arose from the ground he was entirely blind, and was led by
his attendants to the city, and in three days his sight was again
restored to him.

After this he was called Paul, and became one of the most energetic
preachers of the gospel that the Christian religion ever had. By his
zeal and learning he was able to confound all the Jews, and to prove
that Jesus was the Christ,--the Son of God. At last, after a life of
great usefulness, but of much trial and suffering, he was cruelly
beheaded by the enemies of his divine Lord and Master.


[Illustration]