[Illustration: Book Cover]

  THE
  CHILD'S
  STORY-BOOK.

  [Illustration]

  NEW YORK:
  KIGGINS & KELLOGG,
  123 & 125 William St.

[Illustration]




THE STORY-BOOK.




THE STAG-HUNT.


"Did you ever see any deer?"--"No, did you!"--"Yes, I have a cousin
who keeps a great number of them; he has a nice large park for them to
live in, where they are quite happy. I like to see them there, but I
should not like to see one hunted."--"What! do they ever hunt the
stag?"--"Oh! yes, poor thing, and it runs as long as it has any
strength, and when it can run no longer, its heart breaks, and it
falls down and dies. I wonder how men can be so cruel."--"But are
there any men so cruel as to hunt the stag?"--"Yes, what did you
suppose them to be?"--"Why, dogs, or something of that kind, that have
no more sense. I could not for a moment have thought that men would be
so wicked: what motive can they have for so doing."--"My dear boy,
they think they find pleasure in the chase."--"Pleasure! then, indeed,
they do only think so, for I am sure there can be no real pleasure in
being cruel. Oh! when will that happy time come, when men will be
cruel no more, but will all walk in the footsteps of Jesus Christ."




[Illustration]

THE CAT.


"Puss went under the grate to-night."--"Did she: what that great cat?
I thought only kittens went under grates."--"And so did I; but,
however, she went."--"I wonder what for?"--"Perhaps to look for a
cricket."--"Have you crickets?"--"Yes; I often hear them chirping as I
sit by the fire at night. Ours is a funny cat; she sometimes goes up
the chimney."--"What, when there is a fire in the grate?"--"O no; the
chimney in the back chamber. I have heard it said that cats do not
love any one, but I am sure our cat does; for whenever I let her come
into my lap, she rubs her head about, and stretches out her claws, and
purrs as loudly as she can. I sometimes try to hear what she says, but
I can make nothing of it; but it matters not what she says, I know she
is happy, and that is enough."




[Illustration]

THE LITTLE SHIP.


Father has made me a little ship, and I am going to let it sail in this
little pond. Now let us fancy this water to be the north Pacific ocean,
and those pieces of cork on that side to be the Friendly islands, and
this little man in the ship to be Captain Cook going to find them.

"Do you know where Captain Cook was born?"

"He was born at Marton, a village in the North Riding of Yorkshire,
England."




THE BEGGAR.

[Illustration]


"Mamma, I gave a penny to a poor man this morning. Was I a good boy for
so doing?"--"It depends upon the motive you had in view. Did you give it
to him because you thought I should call you a good boy?"--"Because I
thought you would call me a good boy, mamma."--"I am sorry to hear it,
my dear; tell me just what you thought when you gave the penny to the
man."--"Well, mamma, he was sitting by the road-side, and when I
passed him, he held out his hat, and begged for a trifle to get him
something to eat. So I just thought of a penny I had in my pocket, and I
said to myself, 'Now if I give this penny, mamma will call me a good
boy, and then I shall be glad:' and so I gave it to him."--"Now, my
dear, this is what you should have said: 'This old man is very poor, and
I have a penny to spare that will do him good, and he shall have
it.'"--"Ah! mamma, I wish I had thought of that, but I am sure I did not
intend to do wrong. You know, mamma, I love you so dearly, that I strive
to please you in all things."--"Yes, my dear, I know you love me, and I
believe you did not intend to do wrong; but, my dear child, we are so
apt to do things that we may be praised of men, instead of doing all
things to the glory of God. Do you know, my love, that our Lord said in
his sermon on the mount, 'Take heed that ye do not your alms before men,
to be seen of them! otherwise ye have no reward of your Father, which is
in heaven!' You will try to think of this, will you, love?"--"Oh!
dearest mamma, I am sure I will, and I hope that God

        'Will grant me pardon for the past
        And strength for time to come.'"




[Illustration]

THE ROBIN.


            "The north winds do blow,
            And we shall have snow,
        What will poor Robin do till spring,
              Poor thing, poor thing!
            He will go to the barn,
            And keep himself warm,
        And put his head under his wing,
              Poor thing, poor thing."

Thus sang little Emily, as she sat one bleak morning looking out from
her mamma's window, watching the faded leaves dance along before the
wind. Do you not know how she felt as she sat that morning, in a snug
parlor, with her high-backed chair placed close against the window,
listening to the whistling of the winds, and looking now and then,
toward the cold dark sky? I am sure I know just how she felt, as she
sang those simple words about the robin, for I have often felt in the
same manner myself. Emily was a tender-hearted child, and she loved
the robin red-breast very dearly: indeed there was not anything which
she did not love; for she often said to her mamma, "Everything
belongs to God; therefore I ought to love everything." And so I
believe she did. On that morning after she had been singing her little
song, she said, "Dear mamma, I wish I could find all the robin
red-breasts in the country, that I might keep them in my chamber
through the wintry season, until the bright spring days return. Then,
mamma, I would throw open the windows, and watch the happy little
creatures spread their wings, and go out into the bright world again."
Was not Emily a kind little girl?




[Illustration]

THE WHITE RABBIT.


Oh! Susan, I have got such a darling white rabbit as I think you never
saw. I do believe it is the sweetest little rabbit in the world; for I
have only had it given to me this morning, and yet it will eat clover
from my hand, and let me stroke it, or do anything I please; and the
gardener says that he will make a house for it, which his son Thomas
will paint. Papa says, that I am to call my rabbit Snowdrop; and mamma
says, that its eyes are like rubies; and so do come and look at it,
Susan, and you will say as I do, that it is the sweetest little rabbit
in the world.




LITTLE MARY.


        Little Mary was good,
          The weather was fair;
        She went with her mother,
          To taste the fresh air.

        The birds were singing,
          Mary chatted away;
        And she felt as merry,
          And as happy, as they.




  KIGGINS & KELLOGG,
  Publishers, Booksellers, & Stationers,
  123 & 125 William St.
  Also Manufacturers of every description of
  ACCOUNT BOOKS,
  MEMORANDUMS and PASS BOOKS,
  a large Stock of which is constantly kept
  on hand. Their Assortment of
  SCHOOL
  AND
  MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS,
  and of Foreign and Domestic
  STATIONERY,
  is very complete, to the inspection of which
  they would invite COUNTRY MERCHANTS
  before purchasing elsewhere.

  JUST PUBLISHED,
  REDFIELD'S TOY BOOKS,
  Four Series of Twelve Books each,
  BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED,
  _Price_, _One_, _Two_, _Four_, _and Six Cents_.