WOODBINE-ARBOR;
Or the
Little Gardeners.

A Story of a
Happy Childhood.







[Illustration]

New Haven.
Published by S. Babcock.
1849.

[Illustration: BUILDING THE ARBOR.]




WOODBINE ARBOR; OR THE LITTLE GARDENERS.


Let me tell you, my dear young reader, about a happy little family of
three brothers and three sisters, who lived in a pleasant home, not
far from the great city of New-York. Their father, Mr. Howard, was a
wealthy merchant, and had his store in the city, to which he usually
rode early in the morning, directly after breakfast, and returned home
in season to take tea with his family. He had six children, the little
folks whom I am now going to tell you about.

The girls were named Maria, Elizabeth, and Harriet. The boys were
Henry, Charles, and John.--Henry was the oldest, then Charles, Maria,
John, Elizabeth, and Harriet.

Their home was a beautiful country-seat, situated not far from the
East river, with fine old shade trees in front of it. In the rear was
a very large garden, laid out with great neatness and taste, and well
stocked with fruits and flowers. Then there were walks and borders,
and summer-houses, and arbors, and almost every thing which could
render it a delightful place.

One portion of his grounds Mr. Howard had laid out for a garden for his
children. This was to be their own, and in it they were to dig, and hoe,
and rake, and plant, and transplant, and water, just as they pleased, so
long as they were attentive to their lessons, obedient to their parents,
and kind to each other. When any of them misbehaved,--which was very
seldom,--that child was forbidden to visit the garden for one or two
days, or a week, according to the nature of its offence.

[Illustration: TRANSPLANTING.]

Mr. and Mrs. Howard were both anxious that their children should grow
up, not only good and intelligent, but that they should acquire
active and industrious habits; they therefore encouraged them all,
girls as well as boys, to pass their play-hours in the healthy and
delightful employment of gardening.

Well, our young friends heartily seconded the wishes of their parents,
and except in cold or stormy weather, their little garden was the
scene of great industry, as soon as their several lessons for the day
were recited. They had a complete set of garden tools, just the right
size for such little folks: spades, hoes, rakes, watering-pots, and a
wheelbarrow. I assure you they did not let these tools lie idle. Their
garden, which produced flowers of all kinds, and many varieties of
fruit, always presented a neat and workman-like appearance. The boys
usually took upon themselves the most laborious part of the work, such
as digging, and hoeing, and raking, while their sisters planted and
transplanted, and watered, and pruned and trimmed, as occasion required.

[Illustration: THE LITTLE GARDENERS.]

One day, early in the Spring, the little folks took it into their heads
to build an arbor in their garden. So, getting their mother's consent,
they applied to the gardener, who furnished them with some stout poles
and strips of boards necessary for their purpose. Accordingly, they were
soon industriously engaged in their first essay at building.

Henry planned the shape and the frame, and then he and Charles, with
mallet and hammer in hand, drove the poles into the ground, and nailed
on the strips of board; while Maria and Elizabeth held the materials
for them, and Harriet and John handed up such things as were needed.

In four or five days, "WOODBINE ARBOR," as the little folks named it,
was quite finished. In the center of it they had placed a table, and
built seats around the sides of the arbor. These the girls covered
very neatly with cloth, which their mamma gave them for the purpose.

At each corner of the arbor, our young gardeners set out a fine large
woodbine, which the gardener gave them, and at the sides several
beautiful climbing roses. These vines they trained up to, and over the
top of the arbor, in such a way as to shade the inside from the rays
of the sun.

When these plants were in full bloom, the arbor presented a lovely
appearance, and was filled with the most delightful fragrance. Here our
little gardeners retired when they were fatigued with their labors, or
when the heat of the sun prevented their working in the garden.

[Illustration: ARRANGING THE BOUQUETS.]

On the anniversary of the wedding day of Mr. and Mrs. Howard, the
children always selected from their garden the choicest flowers, as an
offering to their beloved parents; indeed, each of them cultivated
several rare and beautiful kinds for this particular occasion.
Gathering the flowers together, they exerted their utmost skill in
forming two fine large bouquets for their father and mother, which
were presented as an offering from all the children, and which were
designed to grace the vases on the parlor mantle-piece.

When these two bouquets were arranged to the satisfaction of all the
little folks, each one made two of a smaller size, just alike, which
they presented in their own name.

You may be sure these little gifts of affection were duly prized by the
fond parents, and were kept from fading as long as possible. They were
rewarded, too, by some suitable present to each child, accompanied by
kind wishes, and such words of advice and instruction as the occasion
called for. These words of advice, given at such times, made a lasting
impression; they were remembered by the little ones as long as they
remembered the happy events which called them forth.

But you must not suppose these little masters and misses were so fond
of gardening as to spend all their play-hours there. Oh, no; like most
other children, they liked play and play-things. The girls all had
dolls, and a pet rabbit and two little white poodles to amuse
themselves with. Henry made kites, bows, arrows, and other toys, and
Charles was quite fond of making and sailing little toy ships, while
John, the youngest, liked nothing much better than playing with a ball
or trundling his hoop. Still, the garden, after all, afforded them
more real and lasting pleasure than any thing else.

[Illustration: THE TOY SHIP.]

But the year I am telling you about,--the year in which our little
friends built their arbor,--instead of presenting the bouquets as
usual, they begged their parents to visit them at the arbor. The
invitation was readily accepted, and the children accordingly made the
necessary preparations. Having selected the very choicest fruits
from their garden, they arranged it to the best advantage on the
table, placing the two large bouquets in the center; they then each
held the two smaller ones in their hands, and presented them, with
their best wishes, as their parents entered the arbor.

I shall not attempt to tell you how delighted the young people all were
on this occasion, when their neat little arbor, the work of their own
hands, was thus honored with a visit from their parents. With some
crowding, there was room for the eight persons, but mamma made a little
more by taking the youngest up in her lap. Then the different fruits
were handed round, and all partook of such as suited them best. Never
were happier children assembled, or happier parents. Not even the finest
fruit raised by their experienced gardener, ever tasted half as sweet as
that which was eaten at the little feast in "WOODBINE ARBOR."

When it was over, mamma, at the urgent request of the children, sang
one of her sweetest songs, and then they all took a walk through the
garden. Many, very many, were the words of praise and encouragement
spoken by the parents, as they beheld the neatness and good order in
which every thing was kept. The handsomely laid out beds and borders,
the straight rows of plants, the well-trained vines, the beautiful
flowers, and the luxuriant growth of the little trees and shrubbery,
without a single weed to mar the beauty of the garden, excited their
highest admiration.

"My dear little ones," said Mr. Howard, "let the care which you have
bestowed upon this sweet little spot, and the success which has
attended your efforts, incite you to higher and nobler aims, which
will most certainly be rewarded with higher and nobler results. With
the same care and industry which you have bestowed upon your garden,
cultivate your _minds_, and raise in them the lovely and unfading
flowers of piety and virtue. Root out from them the noxious weeds of
vice and evil habits, and train all your thoughts upward to your
heavenly Father and Benefactor. Assist each other in this mental
cultivation, with the same kindness which you have all shown in
cultivating your garden; be ready at all rimes to share with the poor
and needy the blessings which you enjoy, as freely as you have this
day shared the productions of your garden with your parents. Then,
like the plants which you have here cultivated, you will bear fruit
and flowers to bless and cheer your fellow-men; and when you are
removed from earth you will be transplanted in heaven, and blossom
forever in the _Garden of the Lord_."


END.




  BABCOCK'S
  No. 3 TOY BOOKS,
  NEW SERIES,
  MORAL, INSTRUCTIVE, AND
  ENTERTAINING,
  ALL BEAUTIFULLY
  EMBELLISHED
  WITH
  SUPERIOR
  ENGRAVINGS.

  EDITED BY
  THOMAS TELLER.

  CHILDREN'S BOOKS
  OF
  EVERY DESCRIPTION
  CONSTANTLY PUBLISHING.

[Illustration: Back Cover]