 CompSci 161 Winter 2024 Syllabus and Course Reference
Lectures are held MWF 10:00 - 10:50 PM in HIB 100. Attendance is encouraged: it has been the instructor’s experience that students who attend lectures tend to perform better in the class. You are required to attend exams, which are conducted synchronously and in person. You are responsible for the material covered in the lecture and in discussion. Students should not assume that a virtual-remote option will be available at any point in the quarter.
Course announcements : On occasion, course announcements may be posted on Ed and/or Canvas. You are considered to be aware of the announcement 24 hours after it has been posted, regardless of whether you read the alert. Check these every school day.
Students with disabilities: Any students who feel that they may need accommodation based on the impact of a disability should contact the Disability Services Center online or by phone at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to better ensure that such accommodations, such as alternative test-taking environments or note-taking services, can be arranged for you in a timely way. This was written pre-Covid. If you need to contact DSC and are unable to do so, please contact the professor ASAP and we will investigate together.
Commercial note-taking: Students are prohibited from selling (or being paid for taking) notes during this course to or by any person or commercial firm without the express written permission of the professor teaching this course. This includes, but is not limited to, a prohibition for providing notes, handouts, slides, assignment descriptions, or code to websites such as Chegg, Koofers, or CourseHero. Violations of this will be treated as a serious violation of the student code of conduct.
Lecture Recording: To ensure the free and open discussion of ideas, electronic video and/or audio recording by students is not permitted during classroom lectures, discussion and/or activities unless the student obtains express written permission from the instructor. If permission is granted, any distribution of the recording is prohibited. Students with specific electronic recording accommodations authorized by the Office of Disability Services do not require instructor permission; however, the instructor must be notified of any such accommodation prior to recording. Any distribution of such recordings is prohibited.
Primary Textbook: Algorithms by Jeff Erickson. This is available at algorithms.wtf ; students who prefer a printed copy have an option for that, too.
I also suggest reading: Algorithm Design and Applications
by Michael T. Goodrich and Roberto Tamassia
The book is available in hard copy from the usual sources and online at a much cheaper rate.
It is expected that you be polite in all course related interactions, whether with your instructor, TAs, lab tutors, learning assistants, readers, or classmates. Disruptive behavior may result in an F in the class, as well as referral to appropriate authorities.
 
 Grade calculation: The following relative weighting of assignments is based on the assumption that in-person instruction remains for the quarter. In the event that remote instruction is reinstituted by the university this will be revised and the new weights will be announced. Artifacts due prior to that point will retain their relative weights.
● Warm-Up Exercises
○ All warm-up exercises will be weighted equally
● Three mid-quarter topic exams
○ Weighted equally at 10% each
● Demonstrated Competency of Core Topics at Exams
■ Using the Divide and Conquer Paradigm:
■ Using the Dynamic Programming Paradigm:
■ Proving the correctness of a greedy algorithm: 20%
Warm-Up exercises need to be submitted to GradeScope. The access code for GradeScope is XX7Z6X. Your account at GradeScope must use your at-UCI email address. If you wish to use a name on GradeScope other than the one on the roster, please inform the professor via email. There is an "Artifact Submission and Grading Policies" document that describes how to submit the warm-ups; please follow them. The short version of the policy is that your submission must be uploaded as a PDF, able to be read easily by the grader, and that you properly use GradeScope's tagging.
Points towards the demonstrated competency of the core topics section come from topic exams or the final exam. To pass the course you must have a passing average in the topic competency category and have an overall passing average in the course.
Letter grades will be assigned based on the aforementioned relative weights, or the adjusted weights in the event of remote instruction. We will neither have a straight scale nor a straight curve. You probably don't want either of those anyway, even if you think you do. If you do not know what a curve is, or why you probably don’t want to ask for one in most classes, I encourage you to read up on how a curve is different from an adjustment to grade cut points, or ask the professor after class about this.
The only factor in your grade is demonstrated knowledge in the class, and the only reconsideration requests granted are based on marking error. Requests for a grade bump based on other reasoning, such as scholarship requirements, academic eligibility, or transfer needs, will not be considered. If you need a particular grade in CompSci 161, the time to consider that is early in the quarter. There is plenty of opportunity for help, practice, and credit during the quarter. On a related note, there are no opportunities for extra credit.
For information about artifact submissions and grading policies, including grade reconsideration requests, please see the document “Artifact Submission and Grading Policies.” That document is incorporated into this syllabus by reference.
10% 30% total 60% total
20%
20%

 Getting help in this class.
The instructor and other members of course staff will also regularly hold live help sessions. These are a great time to ask questions about lecture material, the associated reading, problem sets, and the like.
Students who wish to contact course staff asynchronously should do so in a manner best suited to their question. Unless otherwise announced, the EdDiscussion forum should be preferred. You may post anonymously on EdStem if you wish. You are anonymous only to your classmates; instructional staff may still see who you are.
If your question is of general interest, or might be answerable by anyone in the class, post the question on EdStem with a privacy setting that allows your classmates to answer. For example, if you are not sure when an artifact is due, or you have a question about a topic that came up in lecture, then that question fits into this category. Do not post your solution, in part or in whole, to something you need to submit for credit in any manner that classmates may see. Course Staff are instructed not to answer questions in this category unless the privacy setting is correct. For example, if you make a private post asking when problem set 2 is due, it may be ignored.
If your question can be answered by any member of course staff, but is not for viewing by your fellow students, post it on EdStem with a privacy setting to instructors only. For example, if you have a bug in your code that you cannot resolve, and you are having trouble finding the time to get to office hours, this would be a great option. Be sure to include relevant details, such as the block of code that is not working, the error message, and what you have tried to do to fix it.
(We don’t have programming assignments this quarter of CompSci 161, but that fits the general idea) If you aren’t sure, feel free to make the post private, although we may request you to make it public after it has been answered.
If you need to reach your instructor specifically, use email. Your instructor is Michael Shindler, reachable by email at mikes at ics dot uci dot edu. Emails sent for course related purposes must be sent to this address, must come from your UCI (or ICS) email address, include your full name and ID number in the body of the email, and have a meaningful subject line that begins with the substring “CompSci 161” -- due to your instructor’s large volume of emails, any that do not conform to this will probably not be read and do not count as having been sent for purposes of the course. Emails that should have been a wider-reaching EdStem post will get, at most, a reply indicating such. If your instructor ever tells you to email him, be sure to follow this requirement. Please remember that email is an asynchronous method of communication, and response times will likely reflect this.
Why? I get a lot of emails. I have an email filter that catches emails sent to that address, from a UCI/ICS email address, and with that subject line prefix. By asking students to do this, I can sit down periodically, find emails about the class(es) I’m teaching, and respond to them.
Do not email course staff other than the professor about the class without prior arrangement.

 As a four-unit class, CompSci 161 is expected to take 12 hours of student time in a typical week. A typical week will consist of three hours of lecture, two hours of discussion, an hour or two of reading and preparing for lectures, and some time spent on problem sets or reviewing material for exams. While most students will probably spend more time during exam weeks, I recommend that you study on a regular basis. The material in this class is better learned that way; students often have difficulty “cramming” for exams in this course.
Exam Rules: Exams will be held synchronously in class hours. The actual time allowed for non-final exams will be 45 minutes of test-taking. For detailed information about the exam rules, refer to the “In-Person Exam Logistics and Rules” document, which is incorporated into this syllabus by reference. You will be expected to abide by these policies during your exams.
Missed Exam Policy: If you need to miss an exam for any reason, and this is for reasons the instructor accepts, then we may reconsider how to calculate your grade. For reasons the student could have known about in advance, it is expected that the student contacts the instructor as soon as possible after the conflict is known. If the conflict could have been known before the exam, the instructor will not provide any relief if informed after the exam unless it would have been unreasonable to do so prior to the exam. If you need to miss an exam, or if you do miss an exam, you must email the instructor as soon as possible upon knowing this. This is especially important for students who might be exposed to illness, especially Covid. If you are sick, especially if you might be contagious, please let your instructor know. Please do not risk your health or that of your classmates to take an exam. Documented sickness will always constitute an excused missed exam.
Exam Seating For students who have a preference for exam seating, such as if you need a desk intended for left- or right-handed students, or if you tend to ask questions during the exam, or have other preferences (such as front of room) please fill out the following form no later than Friday, January 19. I will do my best to accommodate everyone whose request is listed here when I assign seats for exams, which will be no earlier than Friday January 19. https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd0053huc5VcRgqoTzoMiJFpnzpmAnS_EMoW89U e7wtH5sCxQ/viewform
Academic Honesty Policy: see the common policy document “Academic Honesty Guide” for information about academic honesty in this course. A copy of that document is available on the course webpage. That document is incorporated into this syllabus by reference.
  
 Grade reconsideration requests:
If you believe one or more aspects of an exam question has been incorrectly graded, you may submit a request and a member of course staff will review it. All regrade requests must include a description of why you believe the artifact was incorrectly graded; include this with the relevant box within GradeScope. Requests that do not include a description of what you believe was incorrectly graded will be rejected regardless of merit.
To submit a regrade, you must use the regrade feature of GradeScope within the allocated time to submit reconsideration requests. A regrade window will typically be open for at least 72 hours, although it might not open immediately upon artifact return. If, after receiving a response to your regrade request, you are not satisfied with the outcome and believe it should be reviewed further, you may email the instructor. Such emails must be sent within 48 hours of receiving the last feedback on GradeScope and clearly indicate what was misgraded and be specific to which artifact you are requesting an additional view on. Emails that fail to include this information, or that fail to follow the requirements for sending your instructor email (see main syllabus document), will be rejected regardless of merit.
Students who do not follow the relevant procedure for reconsideration requests will be ineligible for any grade reconsideration, regardless of the merit of the request. For example, if you email your instructor to contest a grade on GradeScope prior to hearing back from the grading staff, your regrade request will be denied.
Improper regrade requests: the following are explicitly disallowed actions towards regrade requests and may result in a loss of points and a rejection of your regrade request, regardless of merit. Doing these may also result in being barred from future regrade eligibility.
● DO NOT contact any member of course staff to ask for an opinion on your regrade request or about whether your artifact was graded correctly. While it is okay to ask why something was incorrect, it is not okay to ask about the point values themselves. If you think something was improperly graded, submit a regrade request through the process described above.
● DO NOT submit a regrade request asking for the rubric itself to be revised. Your disagreement with the rubric is not a grading error.
● DO NOT ask a member of course staff to adjust your grade on any artifact outside of grade reconsideration procedures as described in this document.
● DO NOT ask for a regrade based on your failure to follow instructions, including but not limited to the requirement to assign pages through GradeScope or a homework assignment written in such a way that interferes with the grader’s ability to easily read what you wrote.
○ Exception: If you believe an exam question was misgraded because of your handwriting or similar, it is okay to submit a request based on that. Likewise, if you need us to find the physical exam to reconsider, we can do that. The issues listed in “exception” do not constitute a “failure to follow directions” and are valid requests.

