EECS 114: Syllabus

September 2010

1 Course Personnel:
Instructor:
Brian Demsky
E-mail: bdemsky@uci.edu
Office Hours: Tu:1:20 to 2:20 pm in EH 3213
Teaching Assistant:
Vahid Salmani
E-mail: vsalmani@uci.edu
Office Hours: TBA

2 Course meeting times:
Lecture:
T-Th 11-12:20 PCB 1200
Lab:
M 9-10:50 in EH1151
or
W 0-10:50 in EH1151

3 Text:
The course will use the text “Introduction to Algorithms” by Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L.
Rivest, and Clifford Stein.
4 Course Website:
The course website is available at the following URL: http://eee.uci.edu/10f/18090/

4.1 Commenting Code:

Programs must be well documented with useful comments. Excessive, insufficient, or useless comments in the pro-
gram will result in deducted points.

1

4.2 Platform:
Sun Solaris is the standard platform used for this course. All processes run on the unix servers, vivian.eecs.uci.edu,
newport.eecs.uci.edu, or malibu.eecs.uci.edu. Students may use other platforms to develop and test their programs.
However, all course work will be checked and graded on the server. SSH is required to login to the server.
5 Assignments:
Assignments must be turned in on time. Late assignments may not be graded and may receive no credit.
All assignments are to be submitted electronically while being logged into the account on the server. Detailed
instructions on home work submission will be listed with each assignment.
6 Exams:
The course will include one midterm and one final examination. We will require an official photo ID. The midterm
will take place on Tuesday, November 2, 2010.
7 Grading Policy:
The components for the course will be weighted as follows:
50% Assignments
20% Midterm
30% Final examination

8 Academic Honesty:
Students are not allowed to work together on any of the quizzes. Students are expected to write their own code.
Students may discuss conceptual issues about the assignments with other students, but may not share code.

Cheating is a dishonest representation of the course work, including but not limited to cheating on exams, fraud-
ulently presenting lab exercises or assignments by someone else as one’s own, or getting someone else to take the

course. It is a serious academic offense that will not be tolerated. Cheaters can expect to receive a failing grade and
will be punished according to University regulations.
