Course organization

In-person format

This course will be administered in a predominantly in-person format. What this means, chiefly, is that full participation in this course will require your physical presence on campus at various points throughout the quarter, and that we will not be offering a separate virtual experience to students who are not physically attending at those times.

Required equipment

In order to participate in this course successfully, you may at times find it helpful if you have access to a few things.

A laptop or desktop computer with a webcam and a microphone. Most laptops come equipped with the webcam and microphone you'd need; if not, there are a variety of inexpensive options available via Amazon and other outlets. While the course is largely an in-person offering, the webcam and microphone will be necessary to communicate with us remotely, when circumstances call for it.
You'll also need an Internet connection that is fast and stable enough to stream online videos, and you'll need to be able to reach online services such as Canvas, Zoom, Ed Discussion, YuJa, and your @uci.edu email via that connection. These services are part of how we'll be communicating. If Internet accessibility is a problem, there are some resources at UCI TechPrep that might be of help.
And, of course, you'll also be doing your programming projects and reinforcement exercises on a laptop or desktop computer, as well, and there's a pretty good chance that you'll want it to be the same one, because a factor in our ability to help you debug your work remotely, when circumstances call for it, will be our ability to see it in real time and discuss it with you.
Lecture

A lecture meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:00-6:20pm in BS3 1200. Given the course's size, attendance is not graded, but we certainly recommend it. (Naturally, attendance is required on the days when exams are held, which are listed in the Schedule.)

Pre-recorded videos

Portions of the lecture material will be pre-recorded and will be available to officially-enrolled students via the Canvas course space for ICS 32A, in addition to the lecture material that is scheduled to be presented in-person. It is reasonable to expect that a decisive majority of the lecture material will be presented in-person and will not separately be available via pre-recorded videos. You'll see that the video content is listed in the Schedule, alongside the lecture content.

Of course, you are under no obligation to watch the pre-recorded videos, and we will not be measuring whether or not you do so. For the most part, the lectures and any pre-recorded videos will corresponding pretty closely with the Notes and Examples, as is usual in my courses these days. But it's hard to imagine you'll get what you came for without watching the videos and attending the lectures.

Where to go online

While the course is predominantly an in-person offering, there are aspects of the course that are administered online.

This course web site is where you'll go to find out how the course is organized, what lecture material you should be learning about, and what you should be working on (projects, reinforcement exercises) in support of that.
A Canvas course space will also be available, which is where you'll find any video recordings and links to Zoom meetings. You'll also submit your work there, and will find your raw scores on that work once we've graded it.
Any recorded videos that are part of this course will be made available on YuJa, which you'll find linked through the Canvas course space.
Zoom will be used for any online meetings, including my office hours throughout the quarter. Note that all Zoom meetings will be set up to require you to be authenticated as a UCI user; more details on that below.
Additionally, we will have an Ed Discussion discussion board for the course, which you'll find linked through the Canvas course space. Note that there are some rules about its usage — which also can have an effect on your overall grade; see below.
Throughout the quarter, we will be sending email to your @uci.edu email address, so you'll need to ensure that you're able to read and respond to emails sent there.
Online decorum

It should go without saying — though recent experiences tell me otherwise — that we expect a reasonable level of decorum within all of these online spaces at all times. While I won't be able to describe all the ways that you might behave problematically, do be aware that we will not tolerate behavior that is offensive to others, or that disrespects others; just because you're online doesn't relieve you of your obligation to be collegial with one another and with course staff, and there will be repercussions when you do not meet that obligation.

Reinforcement exercises

Roughly corresponding to each week's lecture material will be a collection of reinforcement exercises, whose role is to help you assess your knowledge of each topic. Think of these as "Things you should expect to be able to do and/or explain if you understood this topic well," so they are a sort of measuring stick that you can use to gauge your understanding. They do contribute to your grade (see below), but also contribute to your ensuring that you leave this course with what you came for.

These exercises will be released as they are available. Asking when these will be available will not make them available; they'll be posted when they are.

Labs (The ICS 32A Help Center)

There are seven lab sections, meeting throughout the day on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Collectively, we will refer to all of these hours as the ICS 32A Help Center, which meet at the following times:

Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 8:00am-1:50pm (in-person, in ICS 364A)
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 5:00pm-9:20pm (in-person, in ICS 364A)
While you are required to be enrolled in a lab section — and this enrollment does determine who will grade your projects — you are generally free to attend the ICS 32A Help Center whenever you need it, regardless of which lab section you are enrolled in, with one caveat: If there are many more students attending a lab than are actually enrolled in it, we may need to prioritize answering questions for students officially enrolled in that lab. (We hope we won't need to do that, but the simple reality is we can't support all of you simultaneously, so we can only promise you our best.)

While it is not a required part of the course, and nothing will be graded in the labs this quarter, attendance does offer some significant benefits:

You will have a chance to consult a TA and one or more LAs regarding your work; this kind of fast feedback and help can be invaluable as you work through your projects.
You will be surrounded by a large group of other people facing the same problems that you're facing. This kind of shared journey will help you to build a social network that will last you, in some cases, for the rest of your life. Don't squander that opportunity!
Some of our lab sections are laptop-only sections, which means that there are no computers available for general use except one that you bring for yourself. However, these sections will be staffed with the same personal help available in the others, so if you tend to carry a laptop around with you anyway, you will probably find it at least as comfortable as the alternative.

This course requires no textbook, as I will be providing a complete set of Notes and Examples covering every lecture this quarter.

Note that you might find a book that complements the lecture material and helps you fill in details that you missed while listening to me speak for eighty minutes, though I think the Notes and Examples section will generally be enough information for you to succeed. If you prefer a book (or online supplements of your own choosing) other than what I'm providing, that's generally fine, though do be aware that style and approach among practitioners of a programming language tend to differ, particularly with respect to a language with the long and varied history of Python. We'll be expecting you to follow similar conventions to those we're learning about in this course.

Additionally, one of the main skills you'll be building in this course, aside from broadening and strengthening your Python programming skills, is the ability to find, analyze, and synthesize information in online documentation, tutorials, and other materials that make libraries — not just those that are included with Python, but also those that are obtained from third parties — accessible to you and useful in solving real programming problems. To that extent, the Internet will serve as a significant "textbook" for us, as well. (Be aware, though, that this does not include using solutions to these projects written by previous students, nor to the use of generative AI; see the section titled Academic honesty below for more details.)

Accommodations for disabilities

Any students who feel that they may need an accommodation based on the impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss these specific needs. Also, contact the Disability Services Center online or by phone at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to better ensure that such accommodations, such as alternative test-taking environments or note-taking services, can be arranged for you in a timely way.

Grading

Weights of graded artifacts

Your course grade will be determined from the weighted combination of your scores on each of seven programming projects, eight sets of reinforcement exercises, and an in-person Final Exam. The weights of each of these are:

Two warm-up projects (Project 0A and Project 0B), 6% (weighted equally at 3% each)
Five projects, 40% (weighted equally at 8% each)
Eight sets of reinforcement exercises, 16% (weighted equally at 2% each)
Final Exam, 38%
Exam attendance policy

Your attendance at the Final Exam on the scheduled date and time is a required part of your enrollment in this course. You will find that date and time listed in the Schedule.

Verify at the start of the quarter that you'll be able to attend the exam as scheduled and, if not, you'll need to find another course to enroll in. Once you remain enrolled in this course, you've made a commitment to attend the exam as scheduled, and we will not, under any circumstances, schedule a Final Exam at a different time to accommodate a scheduling conflict, regardless of whether you were aware of it ahead of time. It is your responsibility to keep your schedule clear, and to arrive at the exam on time and ready to put in your best effort; it is similarly your responsibility to take the necessary precautions to reduce the chances of illness. Your score on an unattended Final Exam is zero, with your grade calculated accordingly.

The only exception to this policy is a documented illness or incapacitation, where, to be clear, the documentation must come from a position of authority — a doctor, a police department, campus authorities, or the like — and clarify why it was not possible for you to attend the exam as scheduled. Things like photographs of in-home medical testing kits or emails from family members or friends do not constitute documentation under this policy.

Online participation and decorum

While it is not our intent to measure your participation — in the sense that we won't be tracking whether you're attending the lectures, watching pre-recorded videos (if any), attending the lab sessions, and so on — we are requiring that students meet the decorum requirements described above. We reserve the right to deduct as much as 10% from a student's grade when their behavior does not follow those decorum requirements, with repeated or severe violations warranting larger-sized deductions. My sincere hope is that no one will receive these deductions, but we do reserve the right to use them if need be.

(Note, too, that you'll be notified as soon as we've decided that you'll be receiving one of these deductions, so you don't need to worry that we'll suddenly be reducing your score at the end of the quarter unannounced.)

Determining final grades

Course grades will be determined neither on a normal curve nor a straight scale. It is guaranteed that overall scores over 90% will receive an A- or better, scores over 80% will receive a B- or better, and scores over 70% will receive a C or better. However, the actual cutoffs may be lowered at the end of the quarter. In short, it is not my intention to fail half of the students, nor am I planning on giving only 2% of the students A's, but I prefer not to constrain myself with either a straight scale or a formalized curve.

Unforeseen circumstances may lead to changes

This course has been designed specifically for in-person delivery, in a way that takes into account the potential for some uncertainty along the way. While we'll certainly do our best to leave these policies — as well as the general structure of this course — intact, it is possible that unforeseen circumstances may require us to make modifications along the way. If so, we'll make those modifications in a way that attempts to preserve the spirit of the course and its grading to the extent possible, and we'll notify everyone of any necessary changes as soon as we can, but will not be willing to engage in an individual or group negotiation about the changes made.


