Course organization

In-person format

This course will be administered in a predominantly in-person format. What this means, chiefly, is that your physical presence on campus will be required at various points throughout the quarter, and that we will not be guaranteeing a separate virtual experience to students who are not physically attending at those times.

Required equipment

In order to participate in this course successfully, you may at times find it helpful if you have access to a few things.

A laptop or desktop computer with a webcam and a microphone. Most laptops come equipped with the webcam and microphone you'd need; if not, there are a variety of inexpensive options available via Amazon and other outlets. While the course is largely an in-person offering, the webcam and microphone will be necessary to communicate with us remotely, when circumstances call for it.
You'll also need an Internet connection that is fast and stable enough to stream online videos, and you'll need to be able to reach online services such as Canvas, Zoom, Ed Discussion, and YuJa, and your @uci.edu email via that connection. These services are part of how we'll be communicating. If Internet accessibility is a problem, there are some resources at UCI TechPrep that might be of help.
And, of course, you'll also be doing your programming projects and reinforcement exercises on a laptop or desktop computer, as well, and there's a pretty good chance that you'll want it to be the same one, because a factor in our ability to help you debug your work remotely, when circumstances call for it, will be our ability to see it in real time and discuss it with you.
Lecture

A lecture meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6:30-7:50pm in EH 1200. Given the course's size, attendance is not graded, but we certainly recommend it. (Naturally, attendance is required on the days when exams are held, which are listed in the Schedule.)

Pre-recorded videos

Portions of the lecture material will be pre-recorded and will be available to officially-enrolled students via the Canvas course space for ICS 46, in addition to the lecture material that is scheduled to be presented in-person. It is reasonable to expect that a decisive majority of the lecture material will be presented in-person and will not separately be available via pre-recorded videos. You'll see that the video content is listed in the Schedule, alongside the lecture content.

Of course, you are under no obligation to watch the pre-recorded videos, and we will not be measuring whether or not you do so. For the most part, the lectures and any pre-recorded videos will corresponding pretty closely with the Notes and Examples, as is usual in my courses these days. But it's hard to imagine you'll get what you came for without watching the videos and attending the lectures.

Where to go online

While the course is predominantly an in-person offering, there are aspects of the course that are administered online.

This course web site is where you'll go to find out how the course is organized, what lecture material you should be learning about, and what you should be working on (projects, reinforcement exercises) in support of that.
A Canvas course space will also be available, which is where you'll find any video recordings and links to Zoom meetings. You'll also submit your work there, and will find your raw scores on that work once we've graded it.
Any recorded videos that are part of this course will be made available on YuJa, which you'll find linked through the Canvas course space.
Zoom will be used for any online meetings, including my office hours throughout the quarter. Note that all Zoom meetings will be set up to require you to be authenticated as a UCI user; more details on that below.
Additionally, we will have an Ed Discussion discussion board for the course, subject to certain rules about its usage — which also can have an effect on your overall grade; see below.
Throughout the quarter, we will be sending email to your @uci.edu email address, so you'll need to ensure that you're able to read and respond to emails sent there.
Online decorum

It should go without saying — though the recent experiences of other instructors around the country tell me otherwise — that we expect a reasonable level of decorum within all of these online spaces at all times. While I won't be able to describe all the ways that you might misbehave, do be aware that we will not tolerate behavior that is offensive to others, or that disrespects others; just because you're online doesn't relieve you of your obligation to be collegial with one another and with course staff, and there will be repercussions when you do not meet that obligation.

Reinforcement exercises

Roughly corresponding to each week's lecture material will be a collection of reinforcement exercises, whose role is to help you assess your knowledge of each topic. Think of these as "Things you should expect to be able to do and/or explain if you understood this topic well," so they are a sort of measuring stick that you can use to gauge your understanding. They do contribute to your grade (see below), but also contribute to your ensuring that you leave this course with what you came for.

These exercises will be released as they are available. Asking when these will be available will not make them available; they'll be posted when they are.

Lab meetings

While there are no scheduled lab sections in this course, we will be offering in-person lab meetings on a selection of days and times throughout the week, which provides you with a place to go to get individualized help on your projects and reinforcement exercises. The links to these meetings can be found on the Canvas course space.

During these times, some combination of TAs and lab tutors will be available to help you as you work through your projects. C++ requires an attention to detail that is uncharacteristically high, even for programming, so it will be handy to have a place you can go to get help; keep this on your calendar. You're free to come and go as you'd like within that time; there are no "sections" or other formal arrangement, and you do not need an appointment to attend.

The lab meetings begin on Thursday, March 31. Times and locations are listed below.

A course space has been created on Ed Discussion. You'll find a link to Ed Discussion on this course's Canvas page.

Within Ed Discussion, you'll be able to ask us (and each other) questions about course material, and can expect to see both course staff and students answering those questions along the way. It is our hope that this can be a useful resource to you, and the course staff will be glad to be of service there throughout the quarter.

However, it's important to note that Ed Discussion is only a positive and productive tool if students use a certain level of etiquette and care in using it, so we'll be requiring that — and your grade can be negatively affected if you do otherwise. So what does that mean? In practice, it means a few things.

Before asking a question, read the course web site thoroughly and make sure it's not a question that's clearly answered there already. In a typical quarter, about a third of the email I get from students are things that are clearly already discussed in detail on the course web site; I'd like that ratio to be lower on Ed Discussion, since that's not just a drag on my time, but, more importantly, is a drag on everyone's time, including other students.
Before asking a question, use the search box to find existing questions that have already been asked that would already provide your answer. Especially as we get later in a project cycle or nearer to a due date on a reinforcement exercise, many questions will already have been asked and answered; if so, you asking the question again is a drag on everyone's time.
Do not, under any circumstances, post your solutions — in whole or in part — to projects or reinforcement exercises. Note that there is no size threshold below which you can post your work (e.g., "It was only two lines of code!"); we have a zero-tolerance policy for sharing any part of it. If your question is so specific to your own program that it can't be asked without divulging the contents of your work, or your speculation about whether an answer (or part of an answer) might be correct, you'll need to ask the question elsewhere, such as a lab meeting or via email.
Do not, under any circumstances, ask questions on Ed Discussion about how your work was graded, how your work will be graded, or how others' work was graded. Inquiries about scoring must be made directly to the relevant course staff member via email.
Ed Discussion is a forum for course-related content, discussing and learning about related things (e.g., aspects of C++ not being taught in the course), and getting assistance. It is not a general discussion forum, nor is it a social media platform, so keep the discussion on topic. We are holding you to the standard of treating each other with respect, which importantly includes respecting other people's time (which is why we're forbidding off-topic discussion). Additionally, we will not tolerate any type of personal attacks, memes, cyber-bullying, negativity, or hurtful behavior.
Textbooks

This course requires no textbook, as I will be providing a complete set of Notes and Examples covering every lecture this quarter.

Note that you might find a book that complements the lecture material and helps you fill in details that you missed while listening to me speak for eighty minutes, though I think the Notes and Examples section will generally be enough information for you to succeed. If you prefer a book (or online supplements of your own choosing) other than what I'm providing, that's generally fine, though do be aware that style and approach among practitioners of a programming language tend to differ, particularly with respect to a language as large and complex as C++. We'll be expecting you to follow similar conventions to what we're learning about in this course.

Accommodations for disabilities

Any students who feel that they may need an accommodation based on the impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss these specific needs. Also, contact the Disability Services Center online or by phone at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to better ensure that such accommodations, such as alternative test-taking environments or note-taking services, can be arranged for you in a timely way.

Grading

Weights of graded artifacts

Your course grade will be determined from the weighted combination of your scores on each of six programming projects, eight sets of reinforcement exercises, and an in-person Final Exam. The weights of each of these are:

One "set-up" project, 3%
Five projects, 40% (weighted equally at 8% each)
Eight sets of reinforcement exercises, 24% (weighted equally at 3% each)
Final Exam, 33%
Online participation and decorum

While it is not our intent to measure your participation — in the sense that we won't be tracking whether you're attending the lectures, watching pre-recorded videos, attending the lab sessions, and so on — we are requiring that students meet the decorum requirements described above. We reserve the right to deduct as much as 10% from a student's grade when their behavior does not follow those decorum requirements, with repeated or severe violations warranting larger-sized deductions. My sincere hope is that no one will receive these deductions, but we do reserve the right to use them if need be.

(Note, too, that you'll be notified as soon as we've decided that you'll be receiving one of these deductions, so you don't need to worry that we'll suddenly be reducing your score at the end of the quarter unannounced.)

Determining final grades

Course grades will be determined neither on a normal curve nor a straight scale. It is guaranteed that overall scores over 90% will receive an A- or better, scores over 80% will receive a B- or better, and scores over 70% will receive a C or better. However, the actual cutoffs may be lowered at the end of the quarter. In short, it is not my intention to fail half of the students, nor am I planning on giving only 2% of the students A's, but I prefer not to constrain myself with either a straight scale or a formalized curve.

Unforeseen circumstances may lead to changes

This course has been designed specifically for in-person delivery, in a way that takes into account the potential for some uncertainty along the way. While we'll certainly do our best to leave these policies — as well as the general structure of this course — intact, it is possible that unforeseen circumstances amidst uncertain times may require us to make modifications along the way. If so, we'll make those modifications in a way that attempts to preserve the spirit of the course and its grading to the extent possible, and we'll notify everyone of any necessary changes as soon as we can.

Dropping the course or changing grade option

Through the end of Week 2 (Friday, April 8), you may drop the course by simply going to WebReg and dropping it. If you wish to drop the course after that date, you will need to use the Enrollment Exceptions system to request a drop; I do not have the final say over those, ultimately, as the Dean of the Bren School (and your major, if you are majoring in something outside of the Bren School) must approve them. It is not generally the case that an exception will be accepted simply because you're not doing well in a course, though extenuating circumstances are certainly considered.

Similarly, changing your grade option (to Pass/NotPass or back again) can be done via WebReg through the end of Week 2 (Friday, April 8), after which you must use the Enrollment Exceptions system to request the change. As with exceptional drops, you must receive approval from the appropriate Deans, and that approval is not guaranteed.
